Introits, Collects, Epistles, Graduals and Gospels
First Sunday in Advent
INTROIT
UNTO Thee, O Lord, do I lift up my soul: O my God, I trust in Thee.
Let me not be ashamed: let not mine enemies triumph over me.
Yea, let none that wait on Thee: be ashamed.
Psalm. Show me Thy ways, O Lord: teach me Thy paths.
Glory be to the Father, and to the Son, and to the Holy Ghost; as it was in the beginning, is now,
and ever shall be, world without end. Amen.
COLLECT
STIR up, we beseech Thee, Thy power, O Lord, and come; that by Thy protection we may be
rescued from the threatening perils of our sins, and saved by Thy mighty deliverance; Who livest
and reignest with the Father and the Holy Ghost, ever One God, world without end. Amen.
EPISTLE. Romans 13:11-14
AND that, knowing the time, that now it is high time to awake out of sleep; for now is our
salvation nearer than when we believed. The night is far spent, the day is at hand; let us therefore
cast off the works of darkness, and let us put on the armour of light. Let us walk honestly, as in
the day; not in rioting and drunkenness, not in chambering and wantonness, not in strife and
envying. But put ye on the Lord Jesus Christ, and make not provision for the flesh, to fulfil the
lusts thereof.
GRADUAL
ALL they that wait for Thee: shall not be ashamed, O Lord.
Verse. Show me Thy ways, O Lord: teach me Thy paths. Hallelujah. Hallelujah.
V. Show us Thy mercy, O Lord: and grant us Thy salvation. Hallelujah.
GOSPEL. Matthew 21:1-9
AND when they drew nigh unto Jerusalem, and were come to Bethphage, unto the mount of
Olives, then sent Jesus two disciples, saying unto them, Go into the village over against you, and
straightway ye shall find an ass tied, and a colt with her: loose them, and bring them unto me.
And if any man say ought unto you, ye shall say, The Lord hath need of them; and straightway
he will send them. All this was done, that it might be fulfilled which was spoken by the prophet,
saying, Tell ye the daughter of Sion, Behold, thy King cometh unto thee, meek, and sitting upon
an ass, and a colt the foal of an ass. And the disciples went, and did as Jesus commanded them,
and brought the ass, and the colt, and put on them their clothes, and they set him thereon. And a
very great multitude spread their garments in the way; others cut down branches from the trees,
and strawed them in the way. And the multitudes that went before, and that followed, cried,
saying, Hosanna to the son of David: Blessed is he that cometh in the name of the Lord; Hosanna
in the highest.

Second Sunday in Advent
INTROIT
DAUGHTER of Zion: behold thy salvation cometh.
The Lord shall cause His glorious voice to be heard: and ye shall have gladness of heart.
Psalm. Give ear, O Shepherd of Israel: Thou that leadest Joseph like a flock.
Glory be to the Father, and to the Son, and to the Holy Ghost; as it was in the beginning, is now,
and ever shall be, world without end. Amen.
COLLECT
STIR up our hearts, O Lord, to make ready the way of Thine Only-begotten Son. so that by His
coming we may be enabled to serve Thee with pure minds; through the same Jesus Christ, Thy
Son, our Lord, Who liveth and reigneth with Thee and the Holy Ghost, ever One God, world
without end. Amen.
EPISTLE. Romans 15: 4-13
FOR whatsoever things were written aforetime were written for our learning, that we through
patience and comfort of the scriptures might have hope. Now the God of patience and
consolation grant you to be likeminded one toward another according to Christ Jesus: that ye
may with one mind and one mouth glorify God, even the Father of our Lord Jesus Christ.
Wherefore receive ye one another, as Christ also received us to the glory of God. Now I say that
Jesus Christ was a minister of the circumcision for the truth of God, to confirm the promises
made unto the fathers: and that the Gentiles might glorify God for his mercy; as it is written. For
this cause I will confess to thee among the Gentiles, and sing unto thy name. And again he saith,
Rejoice, ye Gentiles, with his people. And again. Praise the Lord, all ye Gentiles: and laud him.
all ye people. And again, Esaias saith. There shall be a root of Jesse, and he that shall rise to
reign over the Gentiles: in him shall the Gentiles trust. Now the God of hope fill you with all joy
and peace in believing, that ye may abound in hope, through the power of the Holy Ghost.
GRADUAL
OUT of Zion the perfection of beauty God hath shined: Our God shall come.
V. Gather My saints together unto Me: those that have made a covenant with Me by sacrifice.
Hallelujah. Hallelujah.
V. I was glad when they said unto me: Let us go into the house of the Lord. Hallelujah.
Hallelujah.
V. Our feet shall stand within thy gates: O Jerusalem. Hallelujah.
GOSPEL. Luke 21:25-36
AND there shall be signs in the sun, and in the moon, and in the stars; and upon the earth distress
of nations, with perplexity; the sea and the waves roaring; men’s hearts failing them for fear, and
for looking after those things which are coming on the earth: for the powers of heaven shall be
shaken. And then shall they see the Son of man coming in a cloud with power and great glory.
And when these things begin to come to pass, then look up, and lift up your heads; for your
redemption draweth nigh. And he spake to them a parable; Behold the fig tree, and all the trees;
when they now shoot forth, ye see and know of your own selves that summer is now nigh at

hand. So likewise ye, when ye see these things come to pass, know ye that the kingdom of God is
nigh at hand. Verily I say unto you, This generation shall not pass away, till all be fulfilled.
Heaven and earth shall pass away: but my words shall not pass away. And take heed to
yourselves, lest at any time your hearts be overcharged with surfeiting, and drunkenness, and
cares of this life, and so that day come upon you unawares. For as a snare shall it come on all
them that dwell on the face of the whole earth. Watch ye therefore, and pray always, that ye may
be accounted worthy to escape all these things that shall come to pass, and to stand before the
Son of man.

Third Sunday in Advent
INTROIT
REJOICE in the Lord alway: and again I say, Rejoice.
Let your moderation be known unto all men: the Lord is at hand.
Be careful for nothing: but in everything by prayer and supplication with thanksgiving let your
requests be made known unto God.
Psalm. Lord, Thou hast been favorable unto Thy land: Thou hast brought back the captivity of
Jacob.
Glory be to the Father, and to the Son, and to the Holy Ghost; as it was in the beginning, is now,
and ever shall be, world without end. Amen.
COLLECT
LORD, we beseech Thee, give ear to our prayers, and lighten the darkness of our hearts, by Thy
gracious visitation; Who livest and reignest with the Father and the Holy Ghost, ever One God,
world without end. Amen.
EPISTLE. 1 Corinthians 4:1-5
LET a man so account of us, as of the ministers of Christ, and stewards of the mysteries of God.
Moreover it is required in stewards, that a man be found faithful. But with me it is a very small
thing that I should be judged of you, or of man’s judgment: yea, I judge not mine own self. For I
know nothing by myself; yet am I not hereby justified: but he that judgeth me is the Lord.
Therefore judge nothing before the time, until the Lord come, who both will bring to light the
hidden things of darkness, and will make manifest the counsels of the hearts: and then shall
every man have praise of God.
GRADUAL
THOU that dwellest between the Cherubim, shine forth: Stir up Thy strength and come.
Give ear, O Shepherd of Israel: Thou that leadest Joseph like a flock. Hallelujah. Hallelujah.
V. Stir up Thy strength: and come and save us. Hallelujah.
GOSPEL. Matthew 11:2-10
NOW when John had heard in the prison the works of Christ, he sent two of his disciples, and
said unto him, Art thou he that should come, or do we look for another? Jesus answered and said
unto them, Go and show John again those things which ye do hear and see: The blind receive
their sight, and the lame walk, the lepers are cleansed, and the deaf hear, the dead are raised up,

and the poor have the gospel preached to them. And blessed is he, whosoever shall not be
offended in me. And as they departed, Jesus began to say unto the multitudes concerning John,
What went ye out into the wilderness to see? A reed shaken with the wind? But what went ye out
for to see? A man clothed in soft raiment? behold, they that wear soft clothing are in kings’
houses. But what went ye out for to see? A prophet? yea, I say unto you, and more than a
prophet. For this is he, of whom it is written, Behold, I send my messenger before thy face,
which shall prepare thy way before thee.

Fourth Sunday in Advent
INTROIT
DROP down, ye heavens, from above: and let the skies pour down righteousness.
Let the earth open: and bring forth salvation.
Psalm. The heavens declare the glory of God: and the firmament showeth His handiwork.
Glory be to the Father, and to the Son, and to the Holy Ghost; as it was in the beginning, is now,
and ever shall be, world without end. Amen.
COLLECT
STIR up, O Lord, we beseech Thee, Thy power, and come, and with great might succor us, that
by the help of Thy grace whatsoever is hindered by our sin may be speedily accomplished,
through Thy mercy and satisfaction; Who livest and reignest with the Father and the Holy Ghost,
ever One God, world without end. Amen.
EPISTLE. Philippians 4: 4-7
REJOICE in the Lord alway: and again I say. Rejoice. Let your moderation be known unto all
men. The Lord is at hand. Be careful for nothing; but in every thing by prayer and supplication
with thanksgiving let your requests be made known unto God. And the peace of God, which
passeth all understanding, shall keep your hearts and minds through Christ Jesus.
GRADUAL
THE Lord is nigh unto all them that call upon Him: to all that call upon Him in truth.
My mouth shall speak the praise of the Lord: and let all flesh bless His Holy Name. Hallelujah.
Hallelujah.
V. Thou art my Help and my Deliverer: make no tarrying, my God. Hallelujah.
GOSPEL. John 1:19-28
AND this is the record of John, when the Jews sent priests and Levites from Jerusalem to ask
him. Who art thou? And he confessed, and denied not; but confessed, I am not the Christ. And
they asked him, What then? Art thou Elias? And he saith, I am not. Art thou that prophet? And
he answered, No. Then said they unto him, Who art thou? that we may give an answer to them
that sent us. What savest thou of thyself? He said, I am the voice of one crying in the wilderness,
Make straight the way of the Lord, as said the prophet Esaias. And they which were sent were of
the Pharisees. And they asked him, and said unto him, Why baptizest thou then, if thou be not
that Christ, nor Elias, neither that prophet? John answered them, saying, I baptize with water: but
there standeth one among you, whom ye know not; he it is, who coming after me is preferred

before me, whose shoe’s latchet I am not worthy to unloose. These things were done in
Bethabara beyond Jordan, where John was baptizing.
Other Collects for the Season of Advent

MERCIFULLY hear, O Lord, the prayers of Thy people; that as they rejoice in the Advent of
Thine Only-begotten Son according to the flesh, so when He cometh a second time in His
Majesty, they may receive the reward of eternal life; through the same Jesus
Christ, Thy Son, our Lord. Amen.
MOST Merciful God, Who hast given Thine eternal Word to be made incarnate of the pure
Virgin: Grant unto Thy people grace to put away fleshly lusts, that so they may be ready for Thy
Visitation; through the same Jesus Christ, Thy Son, our Lord. Amen.
O LORD, we beseech Thee, mercifully to hear the prayers of Thy people, that we, who for our
sins are justly afflicted, may be consoled by Thy Visitation; Who livest and reignest with the
Father and the Holy Ghost, ever One God, world without end. Amen.

Christmas Day, The Nativity of Our Lord
For an early service

INTROIT
THE Lord hath said unto Me, Thou art My Son: this day have I begotten Thee.
Psalm. The Lord reigneth, He is clothed with majesty: the Lord is clothed with strength,
wherewith He hath girded Himself.
Glory be to the Father, and to the Son, and to the Holy Ghost; as it was in the beginning, is now,
and ever shall be, world without end. Amen.
COLLECT
O GOD, Who hast made this most holy night to shine with the brightness of the true Light:
Grant, we beseech Thee, that as we have known on earth the mysteries of that Light, we may
also come to the fullness of His joys in heaven; Who liveth and reigneth with Thee and the Holy
Ghost, ever One God, world without end. Amen.
EPISTLE. Titus 2:11-14
FOR the grace of God that bringeth salvation hath appeared to all men, teaching us that, denying
ungodliness and worldly lusts, we should live soberly, righteously, and godly, in this present
world; looking for that blessed hope, and the glorious appearing of the great God and our
Saviour Jesus Christ; who gave himself for us, that he might redeem us from all iniquity, and
purify unto himself a peculiar people, zealous of good works.
Or: Isaiah 9:2-7
THE people that walked in darkness have seen a great light: they that dwell in the land of the
shadow of death, upon them hath the light shined. Thou hast multiplied the nation, and not
increased the joy: they joy before thee according to the joy in harvest. and as men rejoice when
they divide the spoil. For thou hast broken the yoke of his burden, and the staff of his shoulder,

the rod of his oppressor, as in the day of Midian. For every battle of the warrior is with confused
noise, and garments rolled in blood; but this shall be with burning and fuel of fire. For unto us a
child is born, unto us a son is given: and the government shall be upon his shoulder: and his
name shall be called Wonderful, Counsellor, The mighty God, The everlasting Father, The
Prince of Peace. Of the increase of his government and peace there shall be no end, upon the
throne of David, and upon his kingdom, to order it, and to establish it with judgment and with
justice from henceforth even for ever. The zeal of the Lord of hosts will perform this.
GRADUAL
THY people shall be willing in the day of Thy power: in the beauties of holiness from the womb
of the morning.
V. The Lord said unto my Lord, Sit Thou at My right hand: until I make Thine enemies Thy
footstool. Hallelujah. Hallelujah.
V. The Lord hath said unto Me, Thou art Mv Son: this day have I begotten Thee. Hallelujah.
GOSPEL. Luke 2:1-14
AND it came to pass in those days, that there went out a decree from Caesar Augustus, that all
the world should be taxed. (And this taxing was first made when Cyrenius was governor of
Syria.) And all went to be taxed, every one into his own city. And Joseph also went up from
Galilee, out of the city of Nazareth, into Judaea, unto the city of David, which is called
Bethlehem; (because he was of the house and lineage of David:) to be taxed with Mary his
espoused wife, being great with child. And so it was, that, while they were there, the days were
accomplished that she should be delivered. And she brought forth her firstborn son, and wrapped
him in swaddling clothes, and laid him in a manger; because there was no room for them in the
inn. And there were in the same country shepherds abiding in the field, keeping watch over their
flock by night. And, lo, the angel of the Lord came upon them, and the glory of the Lord shone
round about them: and they were sore afraid. And the angel said unto them, Fear not: for, behold,
I bring you good tidings of great joy, which shall be to all people. For unto you is born this day
in the city of David a Saviour, which is Christ the Lord. And this shall be a sign unto you; Ye
shall find the babe wrapped in swaddling clothes, lying in a manger. And suddenly there was
with the angel a multitude of the heavenly host praising God, and saying, Glory to God in the
highest, and on earth peace, good will toward men.
II
For a later service

INTROIT
UNTO us a Child is born, unto us a Son is given: and the government shall be upon His
shoulder.
And His Name shall be called Wonderful, Counsellor, The Mighty God: The Everlasting Father,
The Prince of Peace.
Psalm. O sing unto the Lord a new song: for He hath done marvelous things.
Glory be to the Father, and to the Son, and to the Holy Ghost; as it was in the beginning, is now,
and ever shall be, world without end. Amen.

COLLECT
GRANT, we beseech Thee, Almighty God, that the new Birth of Thine Only-begotten Son in the
flesh may set us free who are held in the old bondage under the yoke of sin; through the same
Jesus Christ, Thy Son, our Lord, Who liveth and reigneth with Thee and the Holy Ghost, ever
One God, world without end. Amen.
EPISTLE. Hebrews 1:1-12
GOD, who at sundry times and in divers manners spake in time past unto the fathers by the
prophets, hath in these last days spoken unto us by his Son, whom he hath appointed heir of all
things, by whom also he made the worlds; who being the brightness of his glory, and the express
image of his person, and upholding all things by the word of his power, when he had by himself
purged our sins, sat down on the right hand of the Majesty on high; being made so much better
than the angels, as he hath by inheritance obtained a more excellent name than they. For unto
which of the angels said he at any time, Thou art my Son, this day have I begotten thee? And
again, I will be to him a Father, and he shall be to me a Son? And again, when he bringeth in the
firstbegotten into the world, he saith, And let all the angels of God worship him. And of the
angels he saith, Who maketh his angels spirits, and his ministers a flame of fire. But unto the Son
he saith, Thy throne, O God, is for ever and ever: a sceptre of righteousness is the sceptre of thy
kingdom. Thou hast loved righteousness, and hated iniquity; therefore God, even thy God, hath
anointed thee with the oil of gladness above thy fellows. And, Thou, Lord, in the beginning hast
laid the foundation of the earth; and the heavens are the works of thine hands: they shall perish;
but thou remainest; and they all shall wax old as doth a garment; and as a vesture shalt thou fold
them up, and they shall be changed: but thou art the same, and thy years shall not fail.
GRADUAL
ALL the ends of the earth have seen the salvation of our God: Make a joyful noise unto the Lord,
all the earth.
V. The Lord hath made known His salvation: His righteousness hath He openly showed in the
sight of the heathen. Hallelujah. Hallelujah.
V. O come, let us sing unto the Lord: Let us worship and bow down before Him. Hallelujah.
GOSPEL. John 1:1-11
IN the beginning was the Word, and the Word was with God, and the Word was God. The same
was in the beginning with God. All things were made by him; and without him was not any tiling
made that was made. In him was life; and the life was the light of men. And the light shineth in
darkness; and the darkness comprehended it not. There was a man sent from God, whose name
was John. The same came for a witness, to bear witness of the Light, that all men through him
might believe. He was not that Light, but was sent to bear witness of that Light. That was the true
Light, which lighteth every man that cometh into the world. He was in the world, and the world
was made by him, and the world knew him not. He came unto his own, and his own received him
not. But as many as received him, to them gave the power to become the sons of God, even to
them that believe on his name: which were born, not of blood, nor of the will of the flesh, nor of
the will of man, but of God. And the Word was made flesh, and dwelt among us, (and we beheld
his glory, the glory as of the only begotten of the Father, full of grace and truth.

The Second Christmas Day
INTROIT and COLLECT the same as for Christmas Day.
EPISTLE. Titus 3:4-7
BUT after that the kindness and love of God our Saviour toward man appeared, not by works of
righteousness which we have done, but according to his mercy he saved us, by the washing of
regeneration, and renewing of the Holy Ghost; which he shed on us abundantly through Jesus
Christ our Saviour; that being justified by his grace, we should be made heirs according to the
hope of eternal life.
GRADUAL
BLESSED is He that cometh in the Name of the Lord: God is the Lord, which hath showed us
light.
V. This is the Lord’s doing: it is marvelous in our eyes. Hallelujah. Hallelujah.
V. The Lord reigneth, He is clothed with majesty: the Lord is clothed with strength, wherewith
He hath girded himself. Hallelujah.
GOSPEL. Luke 2:15-20
AND it came to pass, as the angels were gone away from them into heaven, the shepherds said
one to another, Let us now go even unto Bethlehem, and see this thing which is come to pass,
which the Lord hath made known unto us. And they came with haste, and found Mary, and
Joseph, and the babe lying in a manger. And when they had seen it, they made known abroad the
saying which was told them concerning this child. And all they that heard it wondered at those
things which were told them by the shepherds. But Mary kept all these things, and pondered
them in her heart. And the shepherds returned, glorifying and praising God for all the things that
they had heard and seen, as it was told unto them.

The First Sunday after Christmas
INTROIT
THY testimonies are very sure: holiness becometh Thine house, O Lord, forever.
Thy throne is established of old: Thou art from everlasting.
Psalm. The Lord reigneth, He is clothed with majesty: the Lord is clothed with strength,
wherewith He hath girded Himself.
Glory be to the Father, and to the Son, and to the Holy Ghost; as it was in the beginning, is now,
and ever shall be, world without end. Amen.
COLLECT
ALMIGHTY and Everlasting God, direct our actions according to Thy good pleasure, that in the
Name of Thy beloved Son, we may be made to abound in good works; through the same Jesus
Christ, Thy Son, our Lord, Who liveth and reigneth with Thee and the Holy Ghost, ever One
God, world without end. Amen.
EPISTLE. Galatians 4:1-7

NOW I say. That the heir, as long as he is a child, differeth nothing from a servant, though he be
lord of all; but is under tutors and governors until the time appointed of the father. Even so we,
when we were children, were in bondage under the elements of the world: but when the fullness
of the time was come, God sent forth his Son, made of a woman, made under the law, to redeem
them that were under the law, that we might receive the adoption of sons. And because ye are
sons, God hath sent forth the Spirit of his Son into your hearts, crying, Abba, Father. Wherefore
thou art no more a servant, but a son; and if a son, then an heir of God through Christ.
GRADUAL
THOU art fairer than the children of men: grace is poured into Thy lips.
My heart is inditing a good matter, I speak of the things which I have made touching the King:
my tongue is the pen of a ready writer. Hallelujah. Hallelujah.
V. The Lord reigneth, He is clothed with majesty: the Lord is clothed with strength, wherewith
He hath girded Himself. Hallelujah.
GOSPEL. Luke 2: 33-40
AND Joseph and his mother marveled at those things which were spoken of him. And Simeon
blessed them, and said unto Mary his mother, Behold, this child is set for the fall and rising again
of many in Israel; and for a sign which shall be spoken against; (yea, a sword shall pierce
through thy own soul also,) that the thoughts of many hearts may be revealed. And there was one
Anna, a prophetess, the daughter of Phanuel, of the tribe of Asher: she was of a great age, and
had lived with an husband seven years from her virginity; and she was a widow of about
fourscore and four years, which departed not from the temple, but served God with fastings and
prayers night and day. And she coming in that instant gave thanks likewise unto the Lord, and
spake of him to all them that looked for redemption in Jerusalem. And when they had performed
all things according to the law of the Lord, they returned into Galilee, to their own city Nazareth.
And the child grew, and waxed strong in spirit, filled with wisdom; and the grace of God was
upon him.

The Circumcision and Name of Jesus
(New Year’s Day)

INTROIT
O LORD our Lord, how excellent is Thy Name in all the earth: Who hast set Thy glory above the
heavens.
What is man that Thou art mindful of him: and the son of man that Thou visitest him?
Psalm. Thou, O Lord, art our Father, our Redeemer: Thy Name is from everlasting.
Glory be to the Father, and to the Son, and to the Holy Ghost; as it was in the beginning, is now,
and ever shall be, world without end. Amen.
COLLECT
O LORD God, Who, for our sakes, hast made Thy blessed Son our Saviour subject to the Law,
and caused Him to endure the circumcision of the flesh: Grant us the true circumcision of the
Spirit, that our hearts may be pure from all sinful desires and lusts; through the same Jesus

Christ, Thy Son, our Lord, Who liveth and reigneth with Thee and the Holy Ghost, ever One
God, world without end. Amen.
EPISTLE. Galatians 3:23-29
BUT before faith came, we were kept under the law, shut up unto the faith which should
afterwards be revealed. Wherefore the law was our schoolmaster to bring us unto Christ, that we
might be justified by faith. But after that faith is come, we are no longer under a schoolmaster.
For ye are all the children of God by faith in Christ Jesus. For as many of you as have been
baptized into Christ have put on Christ. There is neither Jew nor Greek, there is neither bond nor
free, there is neither male nor female: for ye are all one in Christ Jesus. And if ye be Christ’s,
then are ye Abraham’s seed, and heirs according to the promise.
GRADUAL
ALL the ends of the earth have seen the salvation of our God: Make a joyful noise unto the Lord,
all the earth.
V. The Lord hath made known His salvation: His righteousness hath He openly showed in the
sight of the heathen. Hallelujah. Hallelujah.
V. God, Who of old time spake in divers ways unto the fathers by the prophets: hath in these last
days spoken unto us by His Son. Hallelujah.
GOSPEL. Luke 2:21
AND when eight days were accomplished for the circumcising of the child, his name was called
JESUS. which was so named of the angel before he was conceived in the womb.
COLLECT FOR NEW YEAR
ALMIGHTY and Everlasting God, from Whom cometh down every good and perfect gift: We
give Thee thanks for all Thy benefits, temporal and spiritual, bestowed upon us in the year past,
and we beseech Thee of Thy goodness, grant us a favorable and joyful year, defend us from all
dangers and adversities, and send upon us the fullness of Thy blessing; through Jesus Christ, Thy
Son, our Lord. Who liveth and reigneth with Thee and the Holy Ghost, ever One God, world
without end. Amen.

The Second Sunday after Christmas
INTROIT, COLLECT and GRADUAL the same as for the first SUNDAY AFTER
CHRISTMAS.
EPISTLE. 1 Peter 4:12-19
BELOVED, think it not strange concerning the fiery trial which is to try you, as though some
strange thing happened unto you: but rejoice, inasmuch as ye are partakers of Christ’s sufferings;
that, when his glory shall be revealed, ye may be glad also with exceeding joy. If ye be
reproached for the name of Christ, happy are ye; for the spirit of glory and of God resteth upon
you: on their part he is evil spoken of, but on your part he is glorified. But let none of you suffer
as a murderer, or as a thief, or as an evildoer, or as a busybody in other men’s matters. Yet if any
man suffer as a Christian, let him not be ashamed; hut let him glorify God on this behalf. For the

time is come that judgment must begin at the house of God: and if it first begin at us, what shall
the end be of them that obey not the gospel of God? And if the righteous scarcely be saved,
where shall the ungodly and the sinner appear? Wherefore let them that suffer according to the
will of God commit the keeping of their souls to him in well doing, as unto a faithful Creator.
GOSPEL. Matthew 2:13-23
AND when they were departed, behold, the angel of the Lord appeareth to Joseph in a dream,
saying, Arise, and take the young child and his mother, and flee into Egypt, and be thou there
until I bring thee word: for Herod will seek the young child to destroy him. When he arose, he
took the young child and his mother by night, and departed into Egypt: and was there until the
death of Herod: that it might be fulfilled which was spoken of the Lord by the prophet, saying,
Out of Egypt have I called my son. Then Herod, when he saw that he was mocked of the wise
men, was exceeding wroth, and sent forth, and slew all the children that were in Bethlehem, and
in all the coasts thereof, from two years old and under, according to the time which he had
diligently enquired of the wise men. Then was fulfilled that which was spoken by Jeremy the
prophet, saying, In Rama was there a voice heard, lamentation, and weeping, and great
mourning, Rachel weeping for her children, and would not be comforted, because they are not.
But when Herod was dead, behold, an angel of the Lord appeareth in a dream to Joseph in Egypt,
saying, Arise, and take the young child and his mother, and go into the land of Israel: for they are
dead which sought the young child’s life. And he arose, and took the young child and his mother,
and came into the land of Israel. But when he heard that Archelaus did reign in Judaea in the
room of his father Herod, he was afraid to go thither: notwithstanding, being warned of God in a
dream, he turned aside into the parts of Galilee: and he came and dwelt in a city called Nazareth:
that it might be fulfilled which was spoken by the prophets, He shall be called a Nazarene.

The Epiphany of our Lord
INTROIT
BEHOLD the Lord, the Ruler, hath come: and the kingdom, and the power, and the glory are in
His hand.
Psalm. Give the King Thy judgments, O God: and Thy righteousness unto the King’s Son.
Glory be to the Father, and to the Son, and to the Holy Ghost; as it was in the beginning, is now,
and ever shall be, world without end. Amen.
COLLECT
O GOD, Who by the leading of a star didst manifest Thy Only-begotten Son to the Gentiles:
Mercifully grant, that we, who know Thee now by faith, may after this life have the fruition of
Thy glorious Godhead; through the same Jesus Christ, Thy Son. our Lord, Who liveth and
reigneth with Thee and the Holy Ghost, ever One God, world without end. Amen.
EPISTLE. Isaiah 60:1-6
ARISE, shine: for thy light is come, and the glory of the Lord is risen upon thee. For. behold, the
darkness shall cover the earth, and gross darkness the people: but the Lord shall arise upon thee,
and his glory shall be seen upon thee. And the Gentiles shall come to thy light, and kings to the
brightness of thy rising. Lift up thine eyes round about, and see: all they gather themselves

together, they come to thee: thy sons shall come from far, and thy daughters shall be nursed at
thy side. Then thou shalt see, and flow together, and thine heart shall fear, and be enlarged;
because the abundance of the sea shall be converted unto thee, the forces of the Gentiles shall
come unto thee. The multitude of camels shall cover thee, the dromedaries of Midian and Ephah;
all they from Sheba shall come: they shall bring gold and incense; and they shall show forth the
praises of the Lord.
GRADUAL
ALL they from Sheba shall come; they shall bring gold and incense: and they shall show forth
the praises of the Lord.
V. Arise, and shine, O Jerusalem: for the glory of the Lord is risen upon thee. Hallelujah.
Hallelujah.
V. We have seen His star in the east: and we have come with our gifts to worship the Lord.
Hallelujah.
GOSPEL. Matthew 2:1-12
NOW when Jesus was born in Bethlehem of Judaea in the days of Herod the king, behold, there
came wise men from the east to Jerusalem, saying, Where is he that is born King of the Jews? for
we have seen his star in the east, and are come to worship him. When Herod the king had heard
these things, he was troubled, and all Jerusalem with him. And when he had gathered all the
chief priests and scribes of the people together, he demanded of them where Christ should be
born. And they said unto him, In Bethlehem of Judaea: for thus it is written by the prophet, And
thou Bethlehem, in the land of Juda, art not the least among the princes of Juda: for out of thee
shall come a Governor, that shall rule my people Israel. Then Herod, when he had privily called
the wise men, enquired of them diligently what time the star appeared. And he sent them to
Bethlehem, and said, Go and search diligently for the young child; and when ye have found him,
bring me word again, that I may come and worship him also. When they had heard the king, they
departed; and, lo, the star, which they saw in the east, went before them, till it came and stood
over where the young child was. ‘When they saw the star, they rejoiced with exceeding great joy.
And when they were come into the house, they saw the young child with Mary his mother, and
fell down, and worshipped him: and when they had opened their treasures, they presented unto
him gifts; gold, and frankincense, and myrrh. And being warned of God in a dream that they
should not return to Herod, they departed into their own country another way.

The First Sunday after the Epiphany
INTROIT
I SAW also the Lord, sitting upon a throne: high and lifted up.
And I heard the voice of a great multitude, saying, Alleluia: for the Lord God Omnipotent
reigneth.
Psalm. Make a joyful noise unto the Lord, all ye lands: Serve the Lord with gladness.
Glory be to the Father, and to the Son, and to the Holy Ghost; as it was in the beginning, is now,
and ever shall be, world without end. Amen.
COLLECT

O LORD, we beseech Thee mercifully to receive the prayers of Thy people who call upon Thee;
and grant that they may both perceive and know what things they ought to do, and also may have
grace and power faithfully to fulfill the same; through Jesus Christ, Thy Son, our Lord, Who
liveth and reigneth with Thee and the Holy Ghost, ever One God, world without end. Amen.
EPISTLE. Romans 12:1-5
I BESEECH you therefore, brethren, by the mercies of God, that ye present your bodies a living
sacrifice, holy, acceptable unto God, which is your reasonable service. And be not conformed to
this world: but be ye transformed by the renewing of your mind, that ye may prove what is that
good, and acceptable, and perfect, will of God. For I say, through the grace given unto me, to
every man that is among you, not to think of himself more highly than he ought to think; but to
think soberly, according as God hath dealt to every man the measure of faith. For as we have
many members in one body, and all members have not the same office: so we, being many, are
one body in Christ, and every one members one of another.
GRADUAL
BLESSED be the Lord God, the God of Israel, Who only doeth wondrous things: And blessed be
His glorious Name forever.
The mountains shall bring peace to Thy people: and the hills righteousness. Hallelujah.
Hallelujah.
V. Make a joyful noise unto the Lord, all ye lands: Serve the Lord with gladness. Hallelujah.
GOSPEL. Luke 2:41-45
NOW his parents went to Jerusalem every year at the feast of the Passover. And when he was
twelve years old, they went up to Jerusalem after the custom of the feast. And when they had
fulfilled the days, as they returned, the child Jesus tarried behind in Jerusalem; and Joseph and
his mother knew not of it. But they, supposing him to have been in the company, went a day’s
journey; and they sought him among their kinsfolk and acquaintance. And when they found him
not, they turned back again to Jerusalem, seeking him. And it came to pass, that after three days
they found him in the temple, sitting in the midst of the doctors, both hearing them, and asking
them questions. And all that heard him were astonished at his understanding and answers. And
when they saw him, they were amazed: and his mother said unto him, Son, why hast thou thus
dealt with us? behold, thy father and I have sought thee sorrowing. And he said unto them, How
is it that ye sought me? wist ye not that I must be about my Father’s business? And they
understood not the saying which he spake unto them. And he went down with them, and came to
Nazareth, and was subject unto them: but his mother kept all these sayings in her heart. And
Jesus increased in wisdom and stature, and in favour with God and man.

The Second Sunday after the Epiphany
INTROIT
ALL the earth shall worship Thee: and shall sing unto Thee, O God.
They shall sing to Thy Name: O Thou Most Highest.
Psalm. Make a joyful noise unto God, all ye lands: sing forth the honor of His Name, make His
praise glorious.

Glory be to the Father, and to the Son, and to the Holy Ghost; as it was in the beginning, is now,
and ever shall be, world without end. Amen.
COLLECT
ALMIGHTY and Everlasting God, Who dost govern all things in heaven and earth: Mercifully
hear the supplications of Thy people, and grant us Thy peace all the days of our life; through
Jesus Christ, Thy Son, our Lord, Who liveth and reigneth with Thee and the Holy Ghost, ever
One God, world without end. Amen.
EPISTLE. Romans 12:6-16
HAVING then gifts differing according to the grace that is given to us, whether prophecy, let us
prophesy according to the proportion of faith; or ministry, let us wait on our ministering; or he
that teacheth, on teaching; or he that exhorteth, on exhortation: he that giveth, let him do it with
simplicity; he that ruleth, with diligence; he that showeth mercy, with cheerfulness. Let love be
without dissimulation. Abhor that which is evil; cleave to that which is good. Be kindly
affectioned one to another with brotherly love; in honour preferring one another; not slothful in
business; fervent in spirit; serving the Lord; rejoicing in hope; patient in tribulation; continuing
instant in prayer; distributing to the necessity of saints; given to hospitality. Bless them which
persecute you: bless, and curse not. Rejoice with them that do rejoice, and weep with them that
weep. Be of the same mind one toward another. Mind not high things, but condescend to men
of low estate.
GRADUAL
HE sent His Word and healed them: and delivered them from their destructions.
V. Oh that men would praise the Lord for His goodness: and for His wonderful works to the
children of men. Hallelujah. Hallelujah.
V. Praise ye Him, all His angels: praise ye Him, all His hosts. Hallelujah.
GOSPEL. John 2:1-11
AND the third day there was a marriage in Cana of Galilee; and the mother of Jesus was there:
and both Jesus was called, and his disciples, to the marriage. And when they wanted wine, the
mother of Jesus saith unto him, They have no wine. Jesus saith unto her, Woman, what have I to
do with thee? mine hour is not yet come. His mother saith unto the servants. Whatsoever he saith
unto you, do it. And there were set there six waterpots of stone, after the manner of the purifying
of the Jews, containing two or three firkins apiece. Jesus saith unto them, Fill the waterpots with
water. And they filled them up to the brim. And he saith unto them, Draw out now, and bear unto
the governor of the feast. And they bare it. When the ruler of the feast had tasted the water that
was made wine, and knew not whence it was: (but the servants which drew the water knew;) the
governor of the feast called the bridegroom, and saith unto him, Every man at the beginning doth
set forth good wine; and when men have well drunk, then that which is worse: but thou hast kept
the good wine until now. This beginning of miracles did Jesus in Cana of Galilee, and manifested
forth his glory; and his disciples believed on him.

The Third Sunday after the Epiphany

INTROIT
WORSHIP Him, all ye His angels: Zion heard and was glad.
The daughters of Judah rejoiced: because of Thy judgments, O Lord.
Psalm. The Lord reigneth, let the earth rejoice: let the multitude of isles be glad thereof.
Glory be to the Father, and to the Son, and to the Holy Ghost; as it was in the beginning, is now,
and ever shall be, world without end. Amen.
COLLECT
ALMIGHTY and Everlasting God, mercifully look upon our infirmities, and in all our dangers
and necessities stretch forth the right hand of Thy Majesty, to help and defend us; through Jesus
Christ, Thy Son. our Lord, Who liveth and reigneth with Thee and the Holy Ghost, ever One
God, world without end. Amen.
EPISTLE. Romans 12:16-21
BE not wise in your own conceits. Recompense to no man evil for evil. Provide things honest in
the sight of all men. If it be possible, as much as lieth in you, live peaceably with all men. Dearly
beloved, avenge not yourselves, but rather give place unto wrath: for it is written, Vengeance is
mine; I will repay, saith the Lord. Therefore if thine enemy hunger, feed him; if he thirst, give
him drink: for in so doing thou shalt heap coals of fire on his head. Be not overcome of evil, but
overcome evil with good.
GRADUAL
SO the heathen shall fear the Name of the Lord: and all the kings of the earth Thy glory,
When the Lord shall build up Zion: He shall appear in His glory.
Hallelujah. Hallelujah.
V. The Lord reigneth; let the earth rejoice: let the multitude of isles be glad thereof. Hallelujah.
GOSPEL. Matthew 8:1-13
WHEN he was come down from the mountain, great multitudes followed him. And, behold,
there came a leper and worshipped him, saying. Lord, if thou wilt, thou canst make me clean.
And Jesus put forth his hand, and touched him, saying, I will; be thou clean. And immediately
his leprosy was cleansed. And Jesus saith unto him, See thou tell no man; but go thy way, show
thyself to the priest, and offer the gift that Moses commanded, for a testimony unto them. And
when Jesus was entered into Capernaum, there came unto him a centurion, beseeching him, and
saying, Lord, my servant lieth at home sick of the palsy, grievously tormented. And Jesus saith
unto him, I will come and heal him. The centurion answered and said, Lord, I am not worthy that
thou shouldest come under my roof: but speak the word only, and my servant shall be healed.
For I am a man under authority, having soldiers under me: and I say to this man, Go, and he
goeth; and to another, Come, and he cometh; and to my servant, Do this, and he doeth it. When
Jesus heard it, he marveled, and said to them that followed, Verily I say unto you, I have not
found so great faith, no, not in Israel. And I say unto you, That many shall come from the east
and west, and shall sit down with Abraham, and Isaac, and Jacob, in the kingdom of heaven. But
the children of the kingdom shall be cast out into outer darkness: there shall be weeping and
gnashing of teeth. And Jesus said unto the centurion, Go thy way; and as thou hast believed, so
be it done unto thee. And his servant was healed in the selfsame hour.

The Fourth Sunday after the Epiphany
The INTROIT and GRADUAL the same as for the Third Sunday after the Epiphany.
COLLECT
ALMIGHTY God, Who knowest us to be set in the midst of so many and great dangers, that by
reason of the frailty of our nature we cannot always stand upright: Grant to us such strength and
protection as may support us in all dangers, and carry us through all temptations; through Jesus
Christ, Thy Son, our Lord, Who liveth and reigneth with Thee and the Holy Ghost, ever One
God, world without end. Amen.
EPISTLE. Romans 13: 8-10
OWE no man any thing, but to love one another: for he that loveth another hath fulfilled the law.
For this, Thou shalt not commit adultery, Thou shalt not kill, Thou shalt not steal, Thou shalt not
bear false witness, Thou shalt not covet; and if there be any other commandment, it is briefly
comprehended in this saying, namely, Thou shalt love thy neighbor as thyself. Love worketh no
ill to his neighbor: therefore love is the fulfilling of the law.
GOSPEL. Matthew 8:23-27
AND when he was entered into a ship, his disciples followed him. And, behold, there arose a
great tempest in the sea, insomuch that the ship was covered with the waves: but he was asleep.
And his disciples came to him, and awoke him, saying, Lord, save us: we perish. And he saith
unto them, Why are ye fearful, ye of little faith? Then he arose, and rebuked the winds and the
sea; and there was a great calm. But the men marveled, saying, What manner of man is this, that
even the winds and the sea obey him!

The Fifth Sunday after the Epiphany
The INTROIT and GRADUAL the same as for the Third Sunday after the Epiphany
COLLECT
O LORD, we beseech Thee to keep Thy Church and Household continually in Thy true religion;
that they who do lean only upon the hope of Thy heavenly grace may evermore be defended by
Thy mighty power; through Jesus Christ, Thy Son, our Lord, Who liveth and reigneth with Thee
and the Holy Ghost, ever One God, world without end. Amen.
EPISTLE. Colossians S:12-17
PUT on therefore, as the elect of God, holy and beloved, bowels of mercies, kindness,
humbleness of mind, meekness, longsuffering; forbearing one another, and forgiving one
another, if any man have a quarrel against any: even as Christ forgave you, so also do ye. And
above all these things put on charity, which is the bond of perfect ness. And let the peace of God
rule in your hearts, to the which also ye are called in one body; and be ye thankful. Let the word
of Christ dwell in you richly in all wisdom; teaching and admonishing one another in psalms and
hymns and spiritual songs singing with grace in your hearts to the Lord. And whatsoever ye do in
word or deed, do all in the name of the Lord Jesus, giving thanks to God and the Father by him.

GOSPEL. Matthew 13:24-30
ANOTHER parable put he forth unto them, saying, The kingdom of heaven is likened unto a
man which sowed good seed in his field: but while men slept, his enemy came and sowed tares
among the wheat, and went his way. But when the blade was sprung up, and brought forth fruit,
then appeared the tares also. So the servants of the householder came and said unto him, Sir,
didst not thou sow good seed in thy field? from whence then hath it tares? He said unto them, An
enemy hath done this. The servants said unto him, Wilt thou then that we go and gather them up?
But he said, Nay: lest while ye gather up the tares, ye root up also the wheat with them. Let both
grow together until the harvest: and in the time of harvest I will say to the reapers, Gather ye
together first the tares, and bind them in bundles to burn them: but gather the wheat into my barn.

The Transfiguration of our Lord
The INTROIT, COLLECT, EPISTLE, GRADUAL and GOSPEL, together with the Minor Propers
for the Transfiguration of our Lord shall be used the last Sunday after the Epiphany in each
year, except when there is only one Sunday after the Epiphany.
INTROIT
THE lightnings lightened the world: the earth trembled and shook.
Psalm. How amiable are Thy tabernacles, O Lord of hosts: My soul longeth, yea, even fainteth
for the courts of the Lord.
Glory be to the Father, and to the Son, and to the Holy Ghost; as it was in the beginning, is now,
and ever shall be, world without end. Amen.
COLLECT
O GOD, Who in the glorious Transfiguration of Thy Only-begotten Son, hast confirmed the
mysteries of the faith by the testimony of the fathers, and Who, in the voice that came from the
bright cloud, didst in a wonderful manner foreshow the adoption of sons: Mercifully vouchsafe
to make us co-heirs with the King of His glory, and bring us to the enjoyment of the same;
through the same Jesus Christ, Thy Son, our Lord, Who liveth and reigneth with Thee and the
Holy Ghost, ever One God, world without end. Amen.
EPISTLE. 2 Peter 1:16-21
FOR we have not followed cunningly devised fables, when we made known unto you the power
and coming of our Lord Jesus Christ, but were eye-witnesses of his majesty. For he received
from God the Father honour and glory, when there came such a voice to him from the excellent
glory. This is my beloved Son, in whom I am well pleased. And this voice which came from
heaven we heard, when we were with him in the holy mount. We have also a more sure word of
prophecy; whereunto ye do well that ye take heed, as unto a light that shineth in a dark place,
until the day dawn, and the day star arise in your hearts: knowing this first, that no prophecy of
the scripture is of any private interpretation. For the prophecy came not in old time by the will of
man: but holy men of God spake as they were moved by the Holy Ghost.
GRADUAL
THOU art fairer than the children of men: grace is poured into Thy lips.

V. The Lord said unto my Lord. Sit Thou at My right hand: until I make Thine enemies Thy
footstool. Hallelujah. Hallelujah.
V. Sing unto the Lord. bless His Name; show forth His salvation from day to day: Declare His
glory among all people. Hallelujah.
GOSPEL. Matthew 17:1-9
AND after six days Jesus taketh Peter, James, and John his brother, and bringeth them up into an
high mountain apart, and was transfigured before them: and his face did shine as the sun,, and his
raiment was white as the light. And, behold, there appeared unto them Moses and Elias talking
with him. Then answered Peter, and said unto Jesus, Lord, it is good for us to be here: if thou
wilt, let us make here three tabernacles; one for thee, and one for Moses, and one for Elias.
While he yet spake, behold, a bright cloud overshadowed them: and behold a voice out of the
cloud, which said, This is my beloved Son. in whom I am well pleased; hear ye him. And when
the disciples heard it, they fell on their face, and were sore afraid. And Jesus came and touched
them, and said. Arise, and be not afraid. And when they had lifted up their eyes, they saw no
man. save Jesus only. And as they came down from the mountain. Jesus charged them, saying,
Tell the vision to no man, until the Son of man be risen again from the dead.

Septuagesima Sunday
INTROIT
THE sorrows of death compassed me: the sorrows of hell compassed me about.
In my distress I called upon the Lord: and He heard my voice out of His temple.
Psalm. I will love Thee, Lord my Strength: The Lord is my Rock and my Fortress.
Glory be to the Father, and to the Son, and to the Holy Ghost; as it was in the beginning, is now,
and ever shall be, world without end. Amen.
COLLECT
O LORD, we beseech Thee favorably to hear the prayers of Thy people: that we, who are justly
punished for our offences, may be mercifully delivered by Thy goodness, for the glory of Thy
Name; through Jesus Christ, Thy Son, our Lord, Who liveth and reigneth with Thee and the Holy
Ghost, ever One God, world without end. Amen.
EPISTLE. 1 Corinthians 9:24—10:5
KNOW ye not that they which run in a race run all, but one receiveth the prize? So run, that ye
may obtain. And every man that striveth for the mastery is temperate in all things. Now they do it
to obtain a corruptible crown; but we an incorruptible. I therefore so run, not as uncertainly; so
fight I, not as one that beateth the air: but I keep under my body, and bring it into subjection: lest
that by any means, when I have preached to others, I myself should be a castaway. Moreover,
brethren, I would not that ye should be ignorant, how that all our fathers were under the cloud,
and all passed through the sea; and were all baptized unto Moses in the cloud and in the sea; and
did all eat the same spiritual meat; and did all drink the same spiritual drink: for they drank of
that spiritual Rock that followed them: and that Rock was Christ. But with many of them God
was not well pleased: for they were overthrown in the wilderness.

GRADUAL
THE Lord also will be a refuge for the oppressed, a refuge in times of trouble: And they that
know Thy Name will put their trust in Thee; for Thou, Lord, hast not forsaken them that seek
Thee.
V. For the needy shall not alway be forgotten: the expectation of the poor shall not perish
forever. Arise, O Lord; let not man prevail.
Tract. Out of the depths have I cried unto Thee, O Lord: Lord, hear my voice.
GOSPEL. Matthew 20:1-16
FOR the kingdom of heaven is like unto a man that is an householder, which went out early in
the morning to hire labourers into his vineyard. And when he had agreed with the labourers for a
penny a day, he sent them into his vineyard. And he went out about the third hour, and saw
others standing idle in the marketplace, and said unto them; Go ye also into the vineyard, and
whatsoever is right I will give you. And they went their way. Again he went out about the sixth
and ninth hour, and did likewise. And about the eleventh hour he went out, and found others
standing idle, and saith unto them, Why stand ye here all the day idle? They say unto him,
Because no man hath hired us. He saith unto them, Go ye also into the vineyard; and whatsoever
is right, that shall ye receive. So when even was come, the lord of the vineyard saith unto his
steward, Call the labourers, and give them their hire, beginning from the last unto the first. And
when they came that were hired about the eleventh hour, they received every man a penny. But
when the first came, they supposed that they should have received more; and they likewise
received every man a penny. And when they had received it, they murmured against the
goodman of the house, saying, These last have wrought but one hour, and thou hast made them
equal unto us, which have borne the burden and heat of the day. But he answered one of them,
and said, Friend, I do thee no* wrong: didst not thou agree with me for a penny? Take that thine
is, and go thy way: I will give unto this last, even as unto thee. Is it not lawful for me to do what
I will with mine own? Is thine eye evil, because I am good? So the last shall be first, and the first
last: for many be called, but few chosen.

Sexagesima Sunday
INTROIT
AWAKE, why sleepest Thou, O Lord: arise, cast us not off for ever.
Wherefore hidest Thou Thy face: and forgettest our affliction?
Our soul is bowed down to the dust: arise for our help and redeem us.
Psalm. We have heard with our ears, O God: our fathers have told us what work Thou didst in
their days.
Glory be to the Father, and to the Son, and to the Holy Ghost; as it was in the beginning, is now,
and ever shall be, world without end. Amen.
COLLECT
O LORD God, Who seest that we put not our trust in anything that we do: Mercifully grant that
by Thy power we may be defended against all adversity: through Jesus Christ, Thy Son, our
Lord, Who liveth and reigneth with Thee and the Holy Ghost, ever One God, world without end.
Amen.

EPISTLE. 2 Corinthians 11:19—12: 9
FOR ye suffer fools gladly, seeing ye yourselves are wise. For ye suffer, if a man bring you into
bondage, if a man devour you, if a man take of you, if a man exalt himself, if a man smite you on
the face. I speak as concerning reproach, as though we had been weak. Howbeit whereinsoever
any is bold, (I speak foolishly,) I am bold also. Are they Hebrews? so am I. Are they Israelites?
so am I. Are they the seed of Abraham? so am I. Are they ministers of Christ? (I speak as a fool)
I am more; in labours more abundant, in stripes above measure, in prisons more frequent, in
deaths oft. Of the Jews five times received I forty stripes save one. Thrice was I beaten with rods,
once was I stoned, thrice I suffered shipwreck, a night and a day I have been in the deep; in
journeyings often, in perils of waters, in perils of robbers, in perils by my mine own countrymen,
in perils by the heathen, in perils in the city, in perils in the wilderness, in perils in the sea, in
perils among false brethren; in weariness and painfulness, in watchings often, in hunger and
thirst, in fastings often, in cold and nakedness. Beside those things that are without, that which
cometh upon me daily, the care of all the churches. Who is weak, and I am not weak? who is
offended, and I burn not? If I must needs glory, I will glory of the things which concern mine
infirmities. The God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, which is blessed for evermore,
knoweth that I lie not. In Damascus the governor under Aretas the king kept the city of the
Damascenes with a garrison, desirous to apprehend me and through a window in a basket was I
let down by the wall, and escaped his hands. It is not expedient for me doubtless to glory. I will
come to visions and revelations of the Lord. I knew a man in Christ above fourteen years ago,
(whether in the body, I cannot tell; or whether out of the body, I cannot tell: God knoweth;) such
an one caught up to the third heaven. And I knew such a man, (whether in the body, or out of the
body, I cannot tell: God knoweth;) how that he was caught up into paradise, and heard
unspeakable words, which it is not lawful for a man to utter. Of such an one will I glory: yet of
myself I will not glory, but in mine infirmities. For though I would desire to glory, I shall not be
a fool; for I will say the truth: hut now I forbear, lest any man should think of me above that
which he seeth me to be, or that he heareth of me. And lest I should be exalted above measure
through the abundance of the revelations, there was given to me a thorn in the flesh, the
messenger of Satan to buffet me, lest I should be exalted above measure. For this thing I
besought the Lord thrice, that it might depart from me. And he said unto me, My grace is
sufficient for thee: for my strength is made perfect in weakness. Most gladly therefore will I
rather glory in my infirmities, that the power of Christ may rest upon me.
GRADUAL
LET the nations know that Thy Name is Jehovah: A Thou alone art the Most High over all the
earth.
My God, make them like a wheel: and like chaff before the wind.
Tract. Thou hast given a banner to them that fear Thee: that it may be displayed because of the
truth.
GOSPEL. Luke 8:4-15
AND when much people were gathered together, and were come to him out of every city, he
spake by a parable: A sower went out to sow his seed: and as he sowed, some fell by the way
side; and it was trodden down, and the fowls of the air devoured it. And some fell upon a rock;
and as soon as it was sprung up, it withered away, because it lacked moisture. And some fell

among thorns; and the thorns sprang up with it, and choked it. And other fell on good ground,
and sprang up, and bare fruit an hundredfold. And when he had said these things, he cried, He
that hath ears to hear, let him hear. And his disciples asked him, saying, What might this parable
be? And he said. Unto you it is given to know the mysteries of the kingdom of God: but to others
in parables; that seeing they might not see, and hearing they might not understand. Now the
parable is this: The seed is the word of God. Those by the way side are they that hear; then
cometh the devil, and taketh away the word out of their hearts, lest they should believe and be
saved. They on the rock are they, which, when they hear, receive the word with joy; and these
have no root, which for a while believe, and in time of temptation fall away. And that which fell
among thorns are they, which, when they have heard, go forth, and are choked with cares and
riches and pleasures of this life, and bring no fruit to perfection. But that on the good ground are
they, which in an honest and good heart, having heard the word, keep it, and bring forth fruit
with patience.

Quinquagesima Sunday
INTROIT
BE Thou my strong Rock: for an house of defense to save me.
Thou art my Rock and my Fortress: therefore for Thy Name’s sake lead me and guide me.
Psalm. In Thee, O Lord, do I put my trust; let me never be ashamed: deliver me in Thy
righteousness.
Glory be to the Father, and to the Son, and to the Holy Ghost; as it was in the beginning, is now,
and ever shall be, world without end. Amen.
COLLECT
O LORD, we beseech Thee mercifully hear our prayers, and, having set us free from the bonds
of sin, defend us from all evil; through Jesus Christ, Thy Son, our Lord, Who liveth and reigneth
with Thee and the Holy Ghost, ever One God, world without end. Amen.
EPISTLE. 1 Corinthians 13:1-13
THOUGH I speak with the tongues of men and of angels, and have not charity, I am become as
sounding brass, or a tinkling cymbal. And though I have the gift of prophecy, and understand all
mysteries, and all knowledge; and though I have all faith, so that I could remove mountains, and
have not charity, I am nothing. And though I bestow all my goods to feed the poor, and though I
give my body to be burned, and have not charity, it profiteth me nothing. Charity suffereth long,
and is kind; charity envieth not: charity vaunteth not itself, is not puffed up, doth not behave
itself unseemly, seeketh not her own, is not easily provoked, thinketh no evil; rejoiceth not in
iniquity, but rejoiceth in the truth; beareth all things, believeth all things, hopeth all things,
endureth all things. Charity never faileth: but whether there be prophecies, they shall fail;
whether there be tongues, they shall cease; whether there be knowledge, it shall vanish away. For
we know in part, and we prophesy in part. But when that which is perfect is come, then that
which is in part shall be done away. When I was a child, I spake as a child, I understood as a
child, I thought as a child: but when I became a man, I put away childish things. For now we see
through a glass, darkly; but then face to face: now I know in part; but then shall I know even as

also I am known. And now abideth faith, hope, charity, these three; but the greatest of these is
charity.
GRADUAL
THOU art the God that doest wonders: Thou hast declared Thy strength among the peoples.
V. Thou hast with Thine arm redeemed Thy people: the sons of Jacob and Joseph.
Tract. Make a joyful noise unto the Lord, all ye lands: Serve the Lord with gladness.
GOSPEL. Luke 18: 31-43
Then he took unto him the twelve, and said unto them, Behold, we go up to Jerusalem, and all
things that are written by the prophets concerning the Son of man shall be accomplished. For he
shall be delivered unto the Gentiles, and shall be mocked, and spitefully entreated, and spitted
on: and they shall scourge him, and put him to death: and the third day he shall rise again. And
they understood none of these things: and this saying was hid from them, neither knew they the
things which were spoken. And it came to pass, that as he was come nigh unto Jericho, a certain
blind man sat by the way side begging: and hearing the multitude pass by, he asked what it
meant. And they told him, that Jesus of Nazareth passeth by. And he cried, saying, Jesus, thou
son of David, have mercy on me. And they which went before rebuked him, that he should hold
his peace: but he cried so much the more, Thou son of David, have mercy on me. And Jesus
stood, and commanded him to be brought unto him: and when he was come near, he asked him,
saying, What wilt thou that I shall do unto thee? And he said, Lord, that I may receive my sight.
And Jesus said unto him, Receive thy sight: thy faith hath saved thee. And immediately he
received his sight, and followed him, glorifying God: and all the people, when they saw it, gave
praise unto God

Ash Wednesday. The First Day of Lent
INTROIT
I WILL cry unto God Most High: unto God that performeth all things for me.
Yea, in the shadow of Thy wings will I make my refuge I until these calamities be overpast.
Psalm. Be merciful unto me, O God, be merciful unto me: for my soul trusteth in Thee.
Glory be to the Father, and to the Son, and to the Holy Ghost; as it was in the beginning, is now,
and ever shall be, world without end. Amen.
COLLECT
ALMIGHTY and Everlasting God, Who hatest nothing that Thou hast made, and dost forgive the
sins of all those who are penitent: Create and make in us new and contrite hearts, that we.
worthily lamenting our sins, and acknowledging our wretchedness, may obtain of Thee, the God
of all mercy, perfect remission and forgiveness; through Jesus Christ, Thy Son, our Lord, Who
liveth and reigneth with Thee and the Holy Ghost, ever One God, world without end. Amen.
EPISTLE. Joel I:12-18
THEREFORE also now, saith the Lord, turn ye even to me with all your heart, and with fasting,
and with weeping, and with mourning: and rend your heart, and not your garments, and turn unto
the Lord your God: for he is gracious and merciful, slow to anger, and of great kindness, and

repenteth him of the evil. Who knoweth if he will return and repent, and leave a blessing behind
him; even a meat offering and a drink offering unto the Lord your God? Blow the trumpet in
Zion, sanctify a fast, call a solemn assembly: gather the people, sanctify the congregation,
assemble the elders, gather the children, and those that suck the breasts: let the bridegroom go
forth of his chamber, and the bride out of her closet. Let the priests, the ministers of the Lord,
weep between the porch and the altar, and let them say, Spare thy people. Lord, and give not
thine heritage to reproach, that the heathen should rule over them: wherefore should they say
among the people, Where is their God? Then will the Lord be jealous for his land, and pity his
people. Yea, the Lord will answer and say unto his people. Behold, I will send you corn, and
wine, and oil, and ye shall be satisfied therewith: and I will no more make you a reproach among
the heathen.
GRADUAL
BE merciful unto me, God, be merciful unto me: for my soul trusteth in Thee.
V. He shall send from heaven: and save me from the reproach of him that would swallow me up.
Tract. O Lord, deal not with us after our sins; nor reward us according to our iniquities: Help us,
O God of our salvation; for the glory of Thy Name.
GOSPEL. Matthew 6:16-21
MOREOVER when ye fast, be not, as the hypocrites, of a sad countenance: for they disfigure
their faces, that they may appear unto men to fast. Verily I say unto you, They have their reward.
But thou, when thou fastest, anoint thine head, and wash thy face; that thou appear not unto men
to fast, but unto thy Father which is in secret: and thy Father, which seeth in secret, shall reward
thee openly. Lay not up for yourselves treasures upon earth, where moth and rust doth corrupt,
and where thieves break through and steal: but lay up for yourselves treasures in heaven, where
neither moth nor rust doth corrupt, and where thieves do not break through nor steal: for where
your treasure is, there will your heart be also.

Invocavit. The First Sunday in Lent
INTROIT
HE shall call upon Me, and I will answer him: I will deliver him and honor him.
With long life will I satisfy him: and show him My salvation.
Psalm. He that dwelleth in the secret place of the Most High: shall abide under the shadow of the
Almighty.
Glory be to the Father, and to the Son, and to the Holy Ghost; as it was in the beginning, is now,
and ever shall be, world without end. Amen.
COLLECT
O LORD, mercifully hear our prayer, and stretch forth the right hand of Thy Majesty to defend
us from them that rise up against us; through Jesus Christ, Thy Son, our Lord, Who liveth and
reigneth with Thee and the Holy Ghost, ever One God, world without end. Amen.
EPISTLE. 2 Corinthians 6:1-10

WE then, as workers together with him, beseech you also that ye receive not the grace of God in
vain. (For he saith, I have heard thee in a time accepted, and in the day of salvation have I
succoured thee: behold, now is the accepted time; behold, now is the day of salvation.) Giving no
offence in any thing, that the ministry be not blamed: but in all things approving ourselves as the
ministers of God, in much patience, in afflictions, in necessities, in distresses, in stripes, in
imprisonments, in tumults, in labours, in watchings, in fastings; by pureness, by knowledge, by
longsuffering, by kindness, by the Holy Ghost, by love unfeigned, by the word of truth, by the
power of God, by the armour of righteousness on the right hand and on the left, by honour and
dishonour, by evil report and good report: as deceivers, and yet true; as unknown, and yet well
known; as dying, and, behold, we live; as chastened, and not- killed; as sorrowful, yet alway
rejoicing; as poor, yet making many rich; as having nothing, and yet possessing all things.
GRADUAL
FOR He shall give His angels charge over thee: to keep thee in all thy ways.
V. They shall bear thee up in their hands: lest thou dash thy foot against a stone
Tract. He that dwelleth in the secret place of the Most High: shall abide under the shadow of the
Almighty.
GOSPEL. Matthew 4:1-11
THEN was Jesus led up of the spirit into the wilderness to be tempted of the devil. And when he
had fasted forty days and forty nights, he was afterward an hungered. And when the tempter
came to him, he said, If thou be the Son of God, command that these stones be made bread. But
he answered and said, It is written, Man shall not live by bread alone, but by every word that
proceedeth out of the mouth of God. Then the devil taketh him up into the holy city, and setteth
him on a pinnacle of the temple, and saith unto him, If thou be the Son of God, cast thyself
down: for it is written, He shall give his angels charge concerning thee: and in their hands they
shall bear thee up, lest at any time thou dash thy foot against a stone. Jesus said unto him, It is
written again, Thou shalt not tempt the Lord thy God. Again, the devil taketh him up into an
exceeding high mountain, and showeth him all the kingdoms of the world, .and the glory of
them; and saith unto him, All these things will I give thee, if thou wilt fall down and worship me.
Then saith Jesus unto him, Get thee hence, Satan: for it is written, Thou shalt worship the Lord
thy God, and him only shalt thou serve. Then the devil leaveth him, and, behold, angels came
and ministered unto him.

Reminiscere. The Second Sunday in Lent
INTROIT
REMEMBER, O Lord, Thy tender mercies and Thy loving-kindnesses I for they have been ever
of old.
Let not mine enemies triumph over me: God of Israel, deliver us out of all our troubles.
Psalm. Unto Thee, O Lord, do I lift up my soul: my God, I trust in Thee; let me not be ashamed.
Glory be to the Father, and to the Son, and to the Holy Ghost; as it was in the beginning, is now,
and ever shall be, world without end. Amen.
COLLECT

Who seest that of ourselves we have no strength: Keep us both outwardly and inwardly; that we
may be defended from all adversities which may happen to the body, and from all evil thoughts
which may assault and hurt the soul; through Jesus Christ, Thy Son, our Lord, Who liveth and
reigneth with Thee and the Holy Ghost, ever One God, world without end. Amen.
EPISTLE. 1 Thessalonians 4:1-7
FURTHERMORE then we beseech you, brethren, and exhort you by the Lord Jesus, that as ye
have received of us how ye ought to walk and to please God, so ye would abound more and
more. For ye know what commandments we gave you by the Lord Jesus. For this is the will of
God, even your sanctification, that ye should abstain from fornication: that every one of you
should know how to possess his vessel in sanctification and honour; not in the lust of
concupiscence, even as the Gentiles which know not God: that no man go beyond and defraud
his brother in any matter: because that the Lord is the avenger of all such, as we also have
forewarned you and testified. For God hath not called us unto uncleanness, but unto holiness.
GRADUAL
THE troubles of my heart are enlarged: bring Thou me out of my distresses.
V. Look upon mine affliction and my pain: and forgive all my sins.
Tract. give thanks unto the Lord; for He is good: for His mercy endureth forever.
GOSPEL. Matthew 15:21-2S
THEN Jesus went thence, and departed into the coasts of Tyre and Sidon. And, behold, a woman
of Canaan came out of the same coasts, and cried unto him, saying, Have mercy on me, Lord,
thou son of David; my daughter is grievously vexed with a devil. But he answered her not a
word. And his disciples came and besought him, saying, Send her away; for she crieth after us.
But he answered and said, I am not sent but unto the lost sheep of the house of Israel. Then came
she and worshipped him, saying, Lord, help me. But he answered and said, It is not meet to take
the children’s bread, and to cast it to dogs. And she said, Truth, Lord: yet the dogs eat of the
crumbs which fall from their masters’ table. Then Jesus answered and said unto her, woman,
great is thy faith: be it unto thee even as thou wilt. And her daughter was made whole from that
very hour.

Oculi. The Third Sunday in Lent
INTROIT
MINE eyes are ever toward the Lord: for He shall pluck my feet out of the net.
Turn Thee unto me, and have mercy upon me: for I am desolate and afflicted.
Psalm. Unto Thee, Lord, do I lift up my soul: my God, I trust in Thee; let me not be ashamed.
Glory be to the Father, and to the Son, and to the Holy Ghost; as it was in the beginning, is now,
and ever shall be, world without end. Amen.
COLLECT
WE beseech Thee, Almighty God, look upon the hearty desires of Thy humble servants, and
stretch forth the right hand of Thy Majesty to be our defence against all our enemies; through

Jesus Christ, Thy Son, our Lord, Who liveth and reigneth with Thee and the Holy Ghost, ever
One God, world without end. Amen.
EPISTLE. Ephesians 5:1-9
BE ye therefore followers of God, as dear children; and walk in love, as Christ also hath loved
us, and hath given himself for us an offering’ and a sacrifice to God for a sweetsmelling savour.
But fornication, and all uncleanness, or covetousness, let it not he once named among you, as
becometh saints; neither filthiness, nor foolish talking, nor jesting, which are not convenient: but
rather giving of thanks. For this ye know, that no whoremonger, nor unclean person, nor
covetous man, who is an idolater, hath any inheritance in the kingdom of Christ and of God. Let
no man deceive you with vain words: for because of these things cometh the wrath of God upon
the children of disobedience. Be not ye therefore partakers with them. For ye were sometimes
darkness, but now are ye light in the Lord: walk as children of light: (for the fruit of the Spirit is
in all goodness and righteousness and truth).
GRADUAL
ARISE, O Lord; let not man prevail: let the heathen be judged in Thy sight,
When mine enemies are turned back: they shall fall and perish at Thy presence.
Tract. Unto Thee lift I up mine eyes, O Thou that dwellest in the heavens: Have mercy upon us,
Lord, have mercy upon us.
GOSPEL. Luke 11:14-28
AND he was casting out a devil, and it was dumb. And it came to pass, when the devil was gone
out, the dumb spake; and the people wondered. But some of them said. He casteth out devils
through Beelzebub the chief of the devils. And others, tempting him, sought of him a sign from
heaven. But he, knowing their thoughts, said unto them. Every kingdom divided against itself is
brought to desolation; and a house divided against a house falleth. If Satan also be divided
against himself, how shall his kingdom stand? because ye say that I cast out devils through
Beelzebub. And if I by Beelzebub cast out devils, by whom do your sons cast them out?
therefore shall they be your judges. But if I with the finger of God cast out devils, no doubt the
kingdom of God is come upon you. When a strong man armed keepeth his palace, his goods are
in peace: but when a stronger than he shall come upon him, and overcome him, he taketh from
him all his armour wherein he trusted, and divideth his spoils. He that is not with me is against
me: and he that gathereth not with me scattereth. When the unclean spirit is gone out of a man,
he walketh through dry places, seeking rest; and finding none, he saith, I will return unto my
house whence I came out. And when he cometh, he findeth it swept and garnished. Then goeth
he, and taketh to him seven other spirits more wicked than himself; and they enter in, and dwell
there: and the last state of that man is worse than the first. And it came to pass, as he spake these
things, a certain woman of the company lifted up her voice, and said unto him, Blessed is the
womb that bare thee, and the paps which thou hast sucked. But he said, Yea rather, blessed are
they that hear the word of God, and keep it.

Laetare. The Fourth Sunday in Lent
INTROIT

REJOICE, ye with Jerusalem, and be glad with her: all ye that love her.
Rejoice for joy with her: all ye that mourn for her.
Psalm. I was glad when they said unto me: Let us go into the house of the Lord.
Glory be to the Father, and to the Son, and to the Holy Ghost; as it was in the beginning, is now,
and ever shall be, world without end. Amen.
COLLECT
GRANT, we beseech Thee, Almighty God, that we, who for our evil deeds do worthily deserve
to be punished, by the comfort of Thy grace may mercifully be relieved; through Jesus Christ,
Thy Son, our Lord, Who liveth and reigneth with Thee and the Holy Ghost, ever One God, world
without end. Amen.
EPISTLE. Galatians 4:21-31
TELL me, ye that desire to be under the law, do ye not hear the law? For it is written, that
Abraham had two sons, the one by a bondmaid, the other by a freewoman. But he who was of the
bondwoman was born after the flesh; but he of the freewoman was by promise. Which things are
an allegory: for these are the two covenants; the one from the mount Sinai, which gendereth to
bondage, which is Agar. For this Agar is mount Sinai in Arabia, and answereth to Jerusalem
which now is, and is in bondage with her children. But Jerusalem which is above is free, which is
the mother of us all. For it is written, Rejoice, thou barren that bearest not; break forth and cry,
thou that travailest not: for the desolate hath many more children than she which hath an
husband. Now we, brethren, as Isaac was, are the children of promise. But as then he that was
born after the flesh persecuted him that was born after the Spirit, even so it is now. Nevertheless
what saith the scripture? Cast out the bondwoman and her son: for the son of the bondwoman
shall not be heir with the son of the freewoman. So then, brethren, we are not children of the
bondwoman, but of the free.
GRADUAL
I WAS glad when they said unto me I Let us go into the house of the Lord.
V. Peace be within thy walls: and prosperity within thy palaces.
Tract. They that trust in the Lord shall be as Mount Zion! which cannot be removed, but abideth
forever.
GOSPEL. John 8:1-15
AFTER these things Jesus went over the sea of Galilee, which is the sea of Tiberias. And a great
multitude followed him, because they saw his miracles which he did on them that were diseased.
And Jesus went up into a mountain, and there he sat with his disciples. And the passover, a feast
of the Jews, was nigh. When Jesus then lifted up his eyes, and saw a great company come unto
him, he saith unto Philip, Whence shall we buy bread, that these may eat? And this he said to
prove him: for he himself knew what he would do. Philip answered him, Two hundred
pennyworth of bread is not sufficient for them, that every one of them may take a little. One of
his disciples, Andrew, Simon Peter’s brother, saith unto him, There is a lad here, which hath five
barley loaves, and two small fishes: but what are they among so many? And Jesus said, Make the
men sit down. Now there was much grass in the place. So the men sat down, in number about
five thousand. And Jesus took the loaves; and when he had given thanks, he distributed to the

disciples, and the disciples to them that were set down; and likewise of the fishes as much as
they would. When they were filled, he said unto his disciples, Gather up the fragments that
remain, that nothing be lost. Therefore they gathered them together, and filled twelve baskets
with the fragments of the five barley loaves, which remained over and above unto them that had
eaten. Then those men, when they had seen the miracle that Jesus did, said, This is of a truth that
prophet that should come into the world. When Jesus therefore perceived that they would come
and take him by force, to make him a king, he departed again into a mountain himself alone.

Judica. Passion Sunday
INTROIT
JUDGE me, O God: and plead my cause against an ungodly nation.
O deliver me from the deceitful and unjust man: for Thou art the God of my strength.
Psalm. send out Thy light and Thy truth: let them lead me; let them bring me unto Thy holy hill.
Glory be to the Father, and to the Son, and to the Holy Ghost; as it was in the beginning, is now,
and ever shall be, world without end. Amen.
COLLECT
WE beseech Thee, Almighty God, mercifully to look upon Thy people, that by Thy great
goodness they may be governed and preserved evermore, both in body and soul; through Jesus
Christ, Thy Son, our Lord, Who liveth and reigneth with Thee and the Holy Ghost, ever One
God, world without end. Amen.
EPISTLE. Hebrews 9:11-15
BUT Christ being come an high priest of good things to come, by a greater and more perfect
tabernacle, not made with hands, that is to say, not of this building; neither by the blood of goats
and calves, but by his own blood he entered in once into the holy place, having obtained eternal
redemption for us. For if the blood of bulls and of goats, and the ashes of an heifer sprinkling the
unclean, sanctifieth to the purifying of the flesh: how much more shall the blood of Christ, who
through the eternal Spirit offered himself without spot to God, purge your conscience from dead
works to serve the living God? And for this cause he is the mediator of the new testament, that
by means of death, for the redemption of the transgressions that were under the first testament,
they which are called might receive the promise of eternal inheritance.
GRADUAL
DELIVER me, O Lord, from mine enemies: teach me to do Thy will.
V. He delivereth me from mine enemies; yea, Thou liftest me up above those that rise up against
me: Thou hast delivered me from the violent man.
Tract. Many a time have they afflicted me from my youth.
V. May Israel now say: Many a time have they afflicted me from my youth.
V. Yet they have not prevailed against me.
GOSPEL. John 8: 46-59
WHICH of you convinceth me of sin? And if I say the truth, why do ye not believe me? He that
is of God heareth God’s words: ye therefore hear them not, because ye are not of God. Then

answered the Jews, and said unto him. Say we not well that thou art a Samaritan, and hast a
devil? Jesus answered, I have not a devil; but I honour my Father, and ye do dishonour me. And I
seek not mine own glory: there is one that seeketh and judgeth. Verily, verily, I say unto you, If a
man keep my saying, he shall never see death. Then said the Jews unto him, Now we know that
thou hast a devil. Abraham is dead, and the prophets; and thou sayest. If a man keep my saying,
he shall never taste of death. Art thou greater than our father Abraham, which is dead? and the
prophets are dead: whom makest thou thyself? Jesus answered, If I honour myself, my honour is
nothing: it is my Father that honoureth me; of whom ye say, that he is your God: yet ye have not
known him; but I know him: and if I should say, I know him not, I shall be a liar like unto you:
but I know him, and keep his saying. Your father Abraham rejoiced to see my day: and he saw it,
and was glad. Then said the Jews unto him, Thou art not yet fifty years old, and hast thou seen
Abraham? Jesus said unto them, Verily, verily, I say unto you, Before Abraham was, I am. Then
took they up stones to east at him: but Jesus hid himself, and went out of the temple, going
through the midst of them, and so passed by.

Palmarum. The Sixth Sunday in Lent
INTROIT
BE not Thou far from me, O Lord: O my Strength, haste Thee to help me.
Save me from the lion’s mouth I and deliver me from the horns of the unicorns.
Psalm. My God, my God, why hast Thou forsaken me: why art Thou so far from helping me?
Glory be to the Father, and to the Son, and to the Holy Ghost; as it was in the beginning, is now,
and ever shall be, world without end. Amen.
COLLECT
ALMIGHTY and Everlasting God, Who hast sent Thy Son, our Saviour Jesus Christ, to take
upon Him our flesh, and to suffer death upon the Cross, that all mankind should follow the
example of His great humility: Mercifully grant that we may both follow the example of His
patience, and also be made partakers of His resurrection; through the same Jesus Christ, Thy
Son, our Lord, Who liveth and reigneth with Thee and the Holy Ghost, ever One God, world
without end. Amen.
EPISTLE. Philippians 2:5-11
LET this mind be in you, which was also in Christ Jesus: who, being in the form of God, thought
it not robbery to be equal with God: but made himself of no reputation, and took upon him the
form of a servant, and was made in the likeness of men: and being found in fashion as a man, he
humbled himself, and became obedient unto death, even the death of the cross. Wherefore God
also hath highly exalted him, and given him a name which is above every name: that at the name
of Jesus every knee should bow, of things in heaven, and things in earth, and things under the
earth; and that every tongue should confess that Jesus Christ is Lord, to the glory of God the
Father.
GRADUAL
THOU hast holden me by my right hand: Thou shalt guide me with Thy counsel, and afterward
receive me to glory.

V. Truly God is good to Israel: even to such as are of a clean heart.
Tract. My God, my God, why hast Thou forsaken me: why art Thou so far from helping me?
V. Our fathers trusted in Thee: They cried unto Thee and were delivered.
GOSPEL. Matthew 21:1-9
AND when they drew nigh unto Jerusalem, and were come to Bethphage, unto the mount of
Olives, then sent Jesus two disciples, saying unto them. Go into the village over against you, and
straightway ye shall find an ass tied, and a colt with her: loose them, and bring them unto me.
And if any man say ought unto you, ye shall say, The Lord hath need of them: and straightway
he will send them. All this was done, that it might be fulfilled which was spoken by the prophet,
saying, Tell ye the daughter of Sion, Behold, thy King cometh unto thee, meek, and sitting upon
an ass, and a colt the foal of an ass. And the disciples went, and did as Jesus commanded them,
and brought the ass, and the colt, and put on them their clothes, and they set him thereon. And a
very great multitude spread their garments in the way; others cut down branches from the trees,
and strawed them in the way. And the multitudes that went before, and that followed, cried,
saying, Hosanna to the son of David: Blessed is he that cometh in the name of the Lord; Hosanna
in the highest.

Monday in Holy Week
INTROIT
PLEAD my cause, O Lord, with them that strive with me: fight against them that fight against
me.
Take hold of shield and buckler: and stand up for mine help.
Psalm. Draw out also the spear, and stop the way against them that persecute me: say unto my
soul, I am thy salvation.
Glory be to the Father, and to the Son, and to the Holy Ghost; as it was in the beginning, is now,
and ever shall be, world without end. Amen.
COLLECT
GRANT, we beseech Thee, Almighty God, that we, who amid so many adversities do fail
through our own infirmities, may be restored through the Passion and Intercession of Thine
Only-begotten Son, Who liveth and reigneth, with Thee and the Holy Ghost, ever One God,
world without end. Amen.
EPISTLE. Isaiah 50:5-10
GRADUAL
STIR up Thyself, and awake to my judgment: even unto my cause, my God and my Lord.
V. Draw out also the spear: and stop the way against them that persecute me.
Tract. Help us, O God of our salvation, for the glory of Thy Name: and deliver us and purge
away our sins for Thy Name’s sake.
GOSPEL. John 12:1-23, or The History of the Passion.

Tuesday in Holy Week
INTROIT
GOD forbid that I should glory: save in the Cross of our Lord Jesus Christ.
In Him is salvation, life, and resurrection from the dead: by Him we are redeemed and set at
liberty.
Psalm. God be merciful unto us, and bless us: and cause His face to shine upon us.
Glory be to the Father, and to the Son, and to the Holy Ghost; as it was in the beginning, is now,
and ever shall be, world without end. Amen.
COLLECT
ALMIGHTY and Everlasting God, grant us grace so to contemplate the Passion of our Lord, that
we may find therein forgiveness for our sins; through the same Jesus Christ, Thy Son, our Lord,
Who liveth and reigneth with Thee and the Holy Ghost, ever One God, world without end.
Amen.
EPISTLE. Jeremiah 11:18-20
GRADUAL
AS for me, my clothing was sackcloth: I humbled my soul with fasting; and my prayer returned
into mine own bosom.
V. Plead my cause, O Lord, with them that strive with me: Take hold of shield and buckler, and
stand up for mine help.
GOSPEL. John 12:24-43, or The History of the Passion.

Wednesday in Holy Week
INTROIT
AT the Name of Jesus every knee shall bow: of things in heaven, and things in earth, and things
under the earth.
For He became obedient unto death, even the death of the Cross: wherefore He is Lord, to the
glory of God the Father.
Psalm. Hear my prayer, Lord: and let my cry come unto Thee.
Glory be to the Father, and to the Son, and to the Holy Ghost; as it was in the beginning, is now,
and ever shall be, world without end. Amen.
COLLECT
GRANT, we beseech Thee, Almighty God, that we, who for our evil deeds are continually
afflicted, may mercifully be relieved by the Passion of Thine Only-begotten Son, Who liveth and
reigneth with Thee and the Holy Ghost, ever One God, world without end. Amen.
EPISTLE. Isaiah 62:11—63:7
GRADUAL

HIDE not Thy face from Thy servant; for I am in trouble: hear me speedily.
V. Save me, O God: for the waters are come in unto my soul, I sink in deep mire, where there is
no standing.
Tract. Hear my prayer, O Lord: and let my cry come unto Thee.
V. Thou shalt arise and have mercy upon Zion: for the time is come to favor her, yea, the set time
is come.
GOSPEL. Luke 22:1—23:42, or The History of the Passion.

Thursday in Holy Week
INTROIT the same as for Tuesday in holy week.
COLLECT
O LORD God, Who hast left unto us in a wonderful Sacrament a memorial of Thy Passion:
Grant, we beseech Thee, that we may so use this Sacrament of Thy Body and Blood, that the
fruits of Thy redemption may continually be manifest in us; Who livest and reignest with the
Father and the Holy Ghost, ever One God, world without end. Amen.
EPISTLE. 1 Corinthians 11:23-32
GRADUAL
CHRIST hath humbled Himself, and become obedient unto death: even the death of the Cross.
V. Wherefore God also hath highly exalted Him: and given Him a Name which is above every
name.
GOSPEL. John 13:1-15, or The History of the Passion.

Good Friday
INTROIT the same as for Tuesday in holy week; or this:
INTROIT
SURELY He hath borne our griefs and carried our sorrows: He was wounded for our
transgressions, He was bruised for our iniquities.
All we like sheep have gone astray: and the Lord hath laid on Him the iniquity of us all.
Psalm. Hear my prayer, O Lord: and let my cry come unto Thee.
Glory be to the Father, and to the Son, and to the Holy Ghost; as it was in the beginning, is now,
and ever shall be, world without end. Amen.
COLLECT
ALMIGHTY God, we beseech Thee graciously to behold this Thy family, for which our Lord
Jesus Christ was contented to be betrayed, and given up into the hands of wicked men, and to
suffer death upon the Cross; through the same Jesus Christ, Thy Son, our Lord, Who liveth and
reigneth with Thee and the Holy Ghost, ever One God, world without end. Amen.
EPISTLE. Isaiah 52:13--53:12

GRADUAL
HE was wounded for our transgressions, He was bruised for our iniquities: the chastisement of
our peace was upon Him; and with His stripes we are healed.
V. He shall see of the travail of His soul: and shall he satisfied.
GOSPEL. John 18:1—19: 42, or The History of the Passion.
OTHER COLLECTS FOR GOOD FRIDAY
ALL MERCIFUL and Everlasting God, Who hast not spared Thine only Son, but delivered Him
up for us all, that He might bear our sins upon the Cross: Grant that our hearts may be so fixed
with steadfast faith in Him that we may not fear the power of any adversaries; through the same
Jesus Christ, Thy Son, our Lord. Amen.
ALMIGHTY and Everlasting God, Who hast willed that Thy Son should bear for us the pains of
the Cross, that Thou mightest remove from us the power of the adversary: Help us so to
remember and give thanks for our Lord’s Passion that we may obtain remission of sin and
redemption from everlasting death; through the same Jesus Christ, Thy Son, our Lord. Amen.

Saturday in Holy Week
COLLECT
O GOD, Who didst enlighten this most holy night with the glory of the Lord’s Resurrection:
Preserve in all Thy people the spirit of adoption which Thou hast given, so that renewed in body
and soul they may perform unto Thee a pure service; through Jesus Christ, Thy Son, our Lord,
Who liveth and reigneth with Thee and the Holy Ghost, ever One God, world without end.
Amen.

Easter Day. The Resurrection of Our Lord
INTROIT
WHEN I awake, I am still with Thee. Hallelujah: Thou hast laid Thine hand upon me.
Hallelujah.
Such knowledge is too wonderful for me: it is high, I cannot attain unto it. Hallelujah. Hallelujah.
Psalm. O Lord, Thou hast searched me, and known me: Thou knowest my down-sitting and mine
uprising.
Glory be to the Father, and to the Son, and to the Holy Ghost; as it was in the beginning, is now,
and ever shall be, world without end. Amen.
Or,
HE is risen, Hallelujah: Why seek ye the Living among the dead? Hallelujah.
Remember how He spake unto you, Hallelujah: the Son of Man must be crucified, and the third
day rise again. Hallelujah. Hallelujah.
Psalm. Thou crownedst Him with glory and honor: Thou madest Him to have dominion over the
works of Thy hands.

Glory be to the Father, and to the Son, and to the Holy Ghost; as it was in the beginning, is now,
and ever shall be, world without end. Amen.
COLLECT
ALMIGHTY God, Who, through Thine Only-begotten Son, Jesus Christ, hast overcome death,
and opened unto us the gate of everlasting life: We humbly beseech Thee, that, as Thou dost put
into our minds good desires, so by Thy continual help we may bring the same to good effect;
through Jesus Christ, Thy Son, our Lord, Who liveth and reigneth with Thee and the Holy Ghost,
ever One God. world without end. Amen.
EPISTLE. 1 Corinthians 5:6-8
YOUR glorying is not good. Know ye not that a little leaven leaveneth the whole lump? Purge
out therefore the old leaven, that ye may be a new lump, as ye are unleavened. For even Christ
our Passover is sacrificed for us: therefore let us keep the feast, not with old leaven, neither with
the leaven of malice and wickedness; but with the unleavened bread of sincerity and truth.
GRADUAL
THIS is the day which the Lord hath made: we will rejoice and be glad in it.
V. O give thanks unto the Lord for He is good: for His mercy endureth forever. Hallelujah.
Hallelujah.
V. Christ our Passover is sacrificed for us.
Psalm. Let us keep the feast: with the unleavened bread of sincerity and truth. Hallelujah.
GOSPEL. Mark 16:1-8
AND when the sabbath was past, Mary Magdalene, and Mary the mother of James, and Salome,
had bought sweet spices, that they might come and anoint him. And very early in the morning
the first day of the week, they came unto the sepulchre at the rising of the sun. And they said
among themselves, Who shall roll us away the stone from the door of the sepulchre? And when
they looked, they saw that the stone was rolled away: for it was very great. And entering into the
sepulchre, they saw a young man sitting on the right side, clothed in a long white garment; and
they were affrighted. And he saith unto them, Be not affrighted: Ye seek Jesus of Nazareth,
which was crucified: he is risen; he is not here: behold the place where they laid him. But go
your way, tell his disciples and Peter that he goeth before you into Galilee: there shall ye see
him, as he said unto you. And they went out quickly, and fled from the sepulchre; for they
trembled and were amazed: neither said they any thing to any man; for they were afraid.
OTHER EASTER COLLECTS
GRANT, we beseech Thee, Almighty God, that we who celebrate Thy Paschal Feast, kindled
with heavenly desires, may ever thirst for the Fountain of Life, Jesus Christ, Thy Son, our Lord,
Who liveth and reigneth with Thee and the Holy Ghost, ever One God. world without end.
Amen.

GRANT, we beseech Thee, Almighty God, that we who celebrate the solemnities of the Lord’s
Resurrection, may by the renewal of Thy Holy Spirit rise again from the death of the soul;
through the same Jesus Christ, thy Son, our Lord. Amen.

Monday after Easter
INTROIT, COLLECT and GRADUAL the same as for Easter Day.
EPISTLE. Acts 10: 34-41
THEN Peter opened his mouth, and said, Of a truth I perceive that God is no respecter of
persons: but in every nation he that feareth him, and worketh righteousness, is accepted with
him. The word which God sent unto the children of Israel, preaching peace by Jesus Christ: (he
is Lord of all:) that word, I say, ye know, which was published throughout all Judaea, and began
from Galilee, after the baptism which John preached; how God anointed Jesus of Nazareth with
the Holy Ghost and with power: who went about doing good, and healing all that were oppressed
of the devil; for God was with him. And we are witnesses of all things which he did both in the
land of the Jews, and in Jerusalem; whom they slew and hanged on a tree: him God raised up the
third day, and showed him openly; not to all the people, but unto witnesses chosen before of
God, even to us, who did eat and drink with him after he rose from the dead.
GOSPEL. Luke 24:13-35
AND, behold, two of them went that same day to a village called Emmaus, which was from
Jerusalem about threescore furlongs. And they talked together of all these things which had
happened. And it came to pass, that, while they communed together and reasoned, Jesus himself
drew near, and went with them. But their eyes were holden that they should not know him. And
he said unto them, What manner of communications are these that ye have one to another, as ye
walk, and are sad? And the one of them, whose name was Cleopas, answering said unto him, Art
thou only a stranger in Jerusalem, and hast not known the things which are come to pass there in
these days? And he said unto them, What things? And they said unto him, Concerning Jesus of
Nazareth, which was a prophet mighty in deed and word before God and all the people: and how
the chief priests and our rulers delivered him to be condemned to death, and have crucified him.
But we trusted that it had been he which should have redeemed Israel: and beside all this, today
is the third day since these things were done. Yea, and certain women also of our company made
us astonished, which were early at the sepulchre; and when they found not his body, they came,
saying, that they had also seen a vision of angels, which said that he was alive. And certain of
them which were with us went to the sepulchre, and found it even so as the women had said: but
him they saw not. Then he said unto them, O fools, and slow of heart to believe all that the
prophets have spoken: ought not Christ to have suffered these things, and to enter into his glory?
And beginning at Moses and all the prophets, he expounded unto them in all the scriptures the
things concerning himself. And they drew nigh unto the village, whither they went: and he made
as though he would have gone further. But they constrained him, saying, Abide with us: for it is
toward evening, and the day is far spent. And he went in to tarry with them. And it came to pass,
as he sat at meat with them, he took bread, and blessed it, and brake, and gave to them. And their
eyes were opened, and they knew him; and he vanished out of their sight. And they said one to
another, Did not our heart burn within us, while he talked with us by the way, and while he

opened to us the Scriptures? And they rose up the same hour, and returned to Jerusalem, and
found the eleven gathered together, and them that were with them, saying, The Lord is risen
indeed, and hath appeared to Simon. And they told what things were done in the way, and how
he was known of them in breaking of bread.

Quasi Modo Geniti. The First Sunday after Easter
INTROIT
AS newborn babes: desire the sincere milk of the Word.
Hear, O my people, and I will testify unto thee: O Israel, if thou wilt hearken unto Me.
Psalm. Sing aloud unto God our strength: make a joyful noise unto the God of Jacob.
Glory be to the Father, and to the Son, and to the Holy Ghost; as it was in the beginning, is now,
and ever shall be, world without end. Amen.
COLLECT
GRANT, we beseech Thee, Almighty God, that we who have celebrated the solemnities of the
Lord’s Resurrection, may, by the help of Thy grace, bring forth the fruits thereof in our life and
conversation; through the same Jesus Christ, Thy Son, our Lord, Who liveth and reigneth with
Thee and the Holy Ghost, ever One God, world without end. Amen.
EPISTLE. 1 John 5: 4-12
FOR whatsoever is born of God overcometh the world: and this is the victory that overcometh
the world, even our faith. Who is he that overcometh the world, but he that believeth that Jesus is
the Son of God? This is he that came by water and blood, even Jesus Christ; not by water only,
but by water and blood. And it is the Spirit that beareth witness, because the Spirit is truth. For
there are three that bear record in heaven, the Father, the Word, and the Holy Ghost: and these
three are one. And there are three that bear witness in earth, the Spirit, and the water, and the
blood: and these three agree in one. If we receive the witness of men, the witness of God is
greater: for this is the witness of God which he hath testified of his Son. He that believeth on the
Son of God hath the witness in himself: he that believeth not God hath made him a liar; because
he believeth not the record that God gave of his Son. And this is the record, that God hath given
to us eternal life, and this life is in his Son. He that hath the Son hath life; and he that hath not the
Son of God hath not life.
GRADUAL
HALLELUJAH. Hallelujah.
V. The angel of the Lord descended from heaven: and came and rolled back the stone from the
door, and sat upon it. Hallelujah.
V. After eight days when the doors were shut, came Jesus and stood in the midst of His disciples:
and saith unto them, Peace be unto you. Hallelujah.
GOSPEL. John 20:19-31
THEN the same day at evening, being the first day of the week, when the doors were shut where
the disciples were assembled for fear of the Jews, came Jesus and stood in the midst, and saith
unto them, Peace be unto you. And when he had so said, he showed unto them his hands and his

side. Then were the disciples glad, when they saw the Lord. Then said Jesus to them again, Peace
be unto you: as my Father hath sent me, even so send I you. And when he had said this, he
breathed on them, and saith unto them, Receive ye the Holy Ghost: whose soever sins ye remit,
they are remitted unto them; and whose soever sins ye retain, they are retained. But Thomas, one
of the twelve, called Didymus, was not with them when Jesus came. The other disciples therefore
said unto him, We have seen the Lord. But he said unto them, Except I shall see in his hands the
print of the nails, and put my finger into the print of the nails, and thrust my hand into his side, I
will not believe. And after eight days again his disciples were within, and Thomas with them:
then came Jesus, the doors being shut, and stood in the midst, and said, Peace be unto you. Then
saith he to Thomas, Reach hither thy finger, and behold my hands; and reach hither thy hand, and
thrust it into, my side: and be not faithless, but believing. And Thomas answered and said unto
him, My Lord and my God. Jesus saith unto him, Thomas, because thou hast seen me, thou hast
believed: blessed are they that have not seen, and yet have believed. And many other signs truly
did Jesus in the presence of his disciples, which are not written in this book: but these are
written, that ye might believe that Jesus is the Christ, the Son of God; and that believing ye might
have life through his name.

Misericordias Domini. The Second Sunday after Easter
INTROIT
THE earth is full of the goodness of the Lord: By the Word of the Lord were the heavens made.
Psalm. Rejoice in the Lord, O ye righteous: for praise is comely for the upright.
Glory be to the Father, and to the Son, and to the Holy Ghost; as it was in the beginning, is now,
and ever shall be, world without end. Amen.
COLLECT
GOD, Who, by the humiliation of Thy Son, didst raise up the fallen world: Grant unto Thy
faithful ones perpetual gladness, and those whom Thou hast delivered from the danger of
everlasting death, do Thou make partakers of eternal joys; through the same Jesus Christ, Thy
Son, our Lord, Who liveth and reigneth with Thee and the Holy Ghost, ever One God, world
without end. Amen.
EPISTLE. 1 Peter 2:21-25
FOR even hereunto were ye called: because Christ also suffered for us, leaving us an example,
that ye should follow his steps: who did no sin, neither was guile found in his mouth: who, when
he was reviled, reviled not again; when he suffered, he threatened not; but committed himself to
him that judgeth righteously: who his own self bare our sins in his own body on the tree, that we,
being dead to sins, should live unto righteousness: by whose stripes ye were healed. For ye were
as sheep going astray; but are now returned unto the Shepherd and Bishop of your souls.
GRADUAL
HALLELUJAH. Hallelujah.
V. Then was the Lord Jesus known of the disciples: in the breaking of bread. Hallelujah.
V. I am the Good Shepherd: and know My sheep, and am known of Mine. Hallelujah.

GOSPEL. John 10:11-16
I AM the good shepherd: the good shepherd giveth his life for the sheep. But he that is an
hireling, and not the shepherd, whose own the sheep are not, seeth the wolf coming, and leaveth
the sheep, and fleeth: and the wolf catcheth them, and scattereth the sheep. The hireling fleeth,
because he is an hireling, and careth not for the sheep. I am the good shepherd, and know my
sheep, and am known of mine. As the Father knoweth me, even so know I the Father: and I lay
down my life for the sheep. And other sheep I have, which are not of this fold: them also I must
bring, and they shall hear my voice; and there shall be one fold, and one shepherd.

Jubilate. The Third Sunday after Easter
INTROIT
MAKE a joyful noise unto God, all ye lands: sing forth the honor of His Name; make His praise
glorious.
Psalm. Say unto God, How terrible art Thou in Thy works: through the greatness of Thy power
shall Thine enemies submit themselves unto Thee.
Glory be to the Father, and to the Son, and to the Holy Ghost; as it was in the beginning, is now,
and ever shall be, world without end. Amen.
COLLECT
ALMIGHTY God, Who showest to them that be in 1JL error the light of Thy truth, to the intent
that they may return into the way of righteousness: Grant unto all them that are admitted into the
fellowship of Christ’s Religion that they may eschew those things that are contrary to their
profession, and follow all such things as are agreeable to the same; through Jesus Christ, Thy
Son, our Lord, Who liveth and reigneth with Thee and the Holy Ghost, ever One God, world
without end. Amen.
EPISTLE. 1 Peter 2:11-20
DEARLY beloved, I beseech you as strangers and pilgrims, abstain from fleshly lusts, which war
against the soul; having your conversation honest among the Gentiles: that, whereas they speak
against you as evildoers, they may by your good works, which they shall behold, glorify God in
the day of visitation. Submit yourselves to every ordinance of man for the Lord’s sake: whether
it be to the king, as supreme; or unto governors, as unto them that are sent by him for the
punishment of evil doers, and for the praise of them that do well. For so is the will of God, that
with well doing ye may put to silence the ignorance of foolish men: as free, and not using your
liberty for a cloak of maliciousness, but as the servants of God. Honour all men. Love the
brotherhood. Fear God. Honour the king. Servants, be subject to your masters with all fear; not
only to the good and gentle, but also to the froward. For this is thankworthy, if a man for
conscience toward God endure grief, suffering wrongfully. For what glory is it, if, when ye be
buffeted for your faults, ye shall take it patiently? but if, when ye do well, and suffer for it, ye
take it patiently, this is acceptable with God.
GRADUAL
HALLELUJAH. Hallelujah.
V. The Lord hath sent redemption: unto His people. Hallelujah.

V. It behooved Christ to suffer, and to rise from the dead: and thus to enter into His glory.
Hallelujah.
GOSPEL. John 16:16-23
ALITTLE while, and ye shall not see me: and again, a little while, and ye shall see me, because I
go to the Father. Then said some of his disciples among themselves, What is this that he saith
unto us, A little while, and ye shall not see me: and again, a little while, and ye shall see me: and.
Because I go to the Father? They said therefore. What is this that he saith, A little while? we
cannot tell what he saith. Now Jesus knew that they were desirous to ask him, and said unto
them. Do ye enquire among yourselves of that I said. A little while, and ye shall not see me: and
again, a little while, and ye shall see me? Verily, verily, I say unto you. That ye shall weep and
lament, but the world shall rejoice: and ye shall be sorrowful, but your sorrow shall be turned
into joy. A woman when she is in travail hath sorrow, because her hour is come: but as soon as
she is delivered of the child, she remembereth no more the anguish, for joy that a man is born
into the world. And ye now therefore have sorrow: but I will see you again, and your heart shall
rejoice, and your joy no man taketh from you. And in that day ye shall ask me nothing.

Cantate. The Fourth Sunday after Easter
INTROIT
O SING unto the Lord a new song: for He hath done marvelous things.
The Lord hath made known His salvation: His righteousness hath he openly showed in the sight
of the heathen.
Psalm. His right hand, and His holy arm: hath gotten Him the victory.
Glory be to the Father, and to the Son, and to the Holy Ghost; as it was in the beginning, is now,
and ever shall be, world without end. Amen.
COLLECT
O GOD, Who makest the minds of the faithful to be of one will: Grant unto Thy people that they
may love what Thou commandest, and desire what Thou dost promise: that, among the manifold
changes of this world, our hearts may there be fixed where true joys are to be found; through
Jesus Christ, Thy Son, our Lord, Who liveth and reigneth with Thee and the Holy Ghost, ever
One God, world without end. Amen.
EPISTLE. James 1:10-21
DO not err, my beloved brethren. Every good gift and every perfect gift is from above, and
cometh down from the Father of lights, with whom is no variableness, neither shadow of turning.
Of his own will begat he us with the word of truth, that we should be a kind of first-fruits of his
creatures. Wherefore, my beloved brethren, let every man be swift to hear, slow to speak, slow to
wrath: for the wrath of man worketh not the righteousness of God. Wherefore lay apart all
filthiness and superfluity of naughtiness, and receive with meekness the engrafted word, which is
able to save your souls.
GRADUAL
HALLELUJAH. Hallelujah.

V. The right hand of the Lord is exalted: The right hand of the Lord doeth valiantly. Hallelujah.
V. Christ, being raised from the dead, dieth no more I death hath no more dominion over Him.
Hallelujah.
GOSPEL. John 16: .5-15
BUT now I go my way to him that sent me; and none of you asketh me, Whither goest thou? But
because I have said these things unto you, sorrow hath filled your heart. Nevertheless I tell you
the truth; It is expedient for you that I go away: for if I go not away. the Comforter will not come
unto you; but if I depart, I will send him unto you. And when he is come, he will reprove the
world of sin, and of righteousness, and of judgment: of sin, because they believe not on me; of
righteousness, because I go to my Father, and ye see me no more; of judgment, because the
prince of this world is judged. I have yet many things to say unto you, but ye cannot bear them
now. Howbeit when he, the Spirit of truth, is come, he will guide you into all truth: for he shall
not speak of himself; but whatsoever he shall hear, that shall he speak: and he will show you
things to come. He shall glorify me: for he shall receive of mine, and shall show it unto you. All
things that the Father hath are mine: therefore said I, that he shall take of mine, and shall show it
unto you.

Rogate. The Fifth Sunday after Easter
INTROIT
WITH the voice of singing declare ye, and tell this: utter it even to the end of the earth.
Hallelujah. The Lord hath redeemed His servant Jacob: Hallelujah. Hallelujah.
Psalm. Make a joyful noise unto God, all ye lands: sing forth the honor of His Name; make His
praise glorious.
Glory be to the Father, and to the Son, and to the Holy Ghost; as it was in the beginning, is now,
and ever shall be, world without end. Amen
.
COLLECT
O GOD, from Whom all good things do come: Grant to us Thy humble servants, that by Thy
holy inspiration we may think those things that be right, and by Thy merciful guiding may
perform the same; through Jesus Christ, Thy Son, our Lord, Who liveth and reigneth with Thee
and the Holy Ghost, ever One God, world without end. Amen.
EPISTLE. James 1:22-27
BUT be ye doers of the word, and not hearers only, deceiving your own selves. For if any be a
hearer of the word, and not a doer, he is like unto a man beholding his natural face in a glass: for
he beholdeth himself, and goeth his way, and straightway forgetteth what manner of man he was.
But whoso looketh into the perfect law of liberty, and continueth therein, he being not a forgetful
hearer, but a doer of the work, this man shall be blessed in his deed. If any man among you seem
to be religious, and bridleth not his tongue, but deceiveth his own heart, this man’s religion is
vain. Pure religion and undefiled before God and the Father is this, To visit the fatherless and
widows in their affliction, and to keep himself unspotted from the world.

GRADUAL
HALLELUJAH. Hallelujah,
V. It behooved Christ to suffer, and to rise from the dead: and thus to enter into His glory.
Hallelujah.
V. I came forth from the Father, and am come into the world: again I leave the world, and go to
the Father. Hallelujah.
GOSPEL. John 16:23-30
VERILY, verily, I say unto you. Whatsoever ye shall ask the Father in my name, he will give it
you. Hitherto have ye asked nothing in my name: ask, and ye shall receive, that your joy may be
full. These things have I spoken unto you in proverbs: but the time cometh, when I shall no more
speak unto you in proverbs, but I shall show you plainly of the Father. At that day ye shall ask in
my name: and I say not unto you, that I will pray the Father for you: for the Father himself loveth
you, because ye have loved me, and have believed that I came out from God. I came forth from
the Father, and am come into the world: again, I leave the world, and go to the Father. His
disciples said unto him, Lo, now speakest thou plainly, and speakest no proverb. Now are we
sure that thou knowest all things, and needest not that any man should ask thee: by this we
believe that thou earnest forth from God.

The Ascension of our Lord
INTROIT
YE men of Galilee, why stand ye gazing up into heaven?: Hallelujah.
This same Jesus which is taken up from you into heaven, shall so come in like manner as ye have
seen Him go into heaven: Hallelujah. Hallelujah.
Psalm. O clap your hands, all ye people: shout unto God with the voice of triumph.
Glory be to the Father, and to the Son, and to the Holy Ghost; as it was in the beginning, is now,
and ever shall be, world without end. Amen.
COLLECT
GRANT, we beseech Thee, Almighty God, that like as we do believe Thy Only-begotten Son,
our Lord Jesus Christ, to have ascended into the heavens; so may we also in heart and mind
thither ascend, and with Him continually dwell, Who liveth and reigneth with Thee and the Holy
Ghost, ever One God, world without end. Amen.
O KING of Glory, Lord of Hosts, Who didst this Day ascend in triumph far above all heavens:
We beseech Thee leave us not comfortless, but send to us the Spirit of Truth, promised of the
Father; Who livest and reignest with the Father and the Holy Ghost, ever One God, world
without end. Amen.
EPISTLE. Acts 1:1-11
THE former treatise have I made, O Theophilus, of all that Jesus began both to do and teach,
until the day in which he was taken up, after that he through the Holy Ghost had given
commandments unto the apostles whom he had chosen: to whom also he showed himself alive

after his passion by many infallible proofs, being seen of them forty days, and speaking of the
things pertaining to the kingdom of God: and, being assembled together with them, commanded
them that they should not depart from Jerusalem, but wait for the promise of the Father, which,
saith he, ye have heard of me. For John truly baptized with water; but ye shall be baptized with
the Holy Ghost not many days hence. When they therefore were come together, they asked of
him, saying. Lord, wilt thou at this time restore again the kingdom to Israel? And he said unto
them, It is not for you to know the times or the seasons, which the Father hath put in his own
power. But ye shall receive power, after that the Holy Ghost is come upon you: and ye shall be
witnesses unto me both in Jerusalem, and in all Judaea, and in Samaria, and unto the uttermost
part of the earth. And when he had spoken these things, while they beheld, he was taken up; and
a cloud received him out of their sight. And while they looked stedfastly toward heaven as he
went up, behold, two men stood by them in white apparel; which also said. Ye men of Galilee,
why stand ye gazing up into heaven? this same Jesus, which is taken up from you into heaven,
shall so come in like manner as ye have seen him go into heaven.
GRADUAL
HALLELUJAH. Hallelujah,
V. God is gone up with a shout: the Lord with the sound of a trumpet.
Hallelujah. Thou hast ascended on high: Thou hast led captivity captive. Hallelujah.
GOSPEL. Mark 16:14-20
AFTERWARD he appeared unto the eleven as they sat at meat, and upbraided them with their
unbelief and hardness of heart, because they believed not them which had seen him after he was
risen. And he said unto them, Go ye into all the world, and preach the gospel to every creature.
He that believeth and is baptized shall be saved; but he that believeth not shall be damned. And
these signs shall follow them that believe; In my name shall they cast out devils; they shall speak
with new tongues; they shall take up serpents; and if they drink any deadly thing, it shall not hurt
them; they shall lay hands on the sick, and they shall recover. So then after the Lord had spoken
unto them, he was received up into heaven, and sat on the right hand of God. And they went
forth, and preached every where, the Lord working with them, and confirming the word with
signs following. Amen.

Exaudi. The Sunday after the Ascension
INTROIT
HEAR, O Lord, when I cry with my voice: Hallelujah.
When Thou saidst, Seek ye My face: my heart said unto Thee, Thy face, Lord, will I seek. Hide
not Thy face from me: Hallelujah. Hallelujah.
Psalm. The Lord is my Light, and my Salvation: whom shall I fear?
Glory be to the Father, and to the Son, and to the Holy Ghost; as it was in the beginning, is now,
and ever shall be, world without end. Amen.
COLLECT

ALMIGHTY, Everlasting God, make us to have always a devout will towards Thee, and to serve
Thy Majesty with a pure heart; through Jesus Christ, Thy Son, our Lord, Who liveth and reigneth
with Thee and the Holy Ghost, ever One God, world without end. Amen.
EPISTLE. 1 Peter 4:7-11
BE ye therefore sober, and watch unto prayer. And above all things have fervent charity among
yourselves: for charity shall cover the multitude of sins. Use hospitality one to another without
grudging. As every man hath received the gift, even so minister the same one to another, as good
stewards of the manifold grace of God. If any man speak, let him speak as the oracles of God; if
any man minister, let him do it as of the ability which God giveth: that God in all things may be
glorified through Jesus Christ, to whom he praise and dominion for ever and ever. Amen.
GRADUAL
HALLELUJAH. Hallelujah,
V. God reigneth over the heathen: God sitteth upon the throne of His holiness. Hallelujah.
V. I will not leave you comfortless: I go, and I will come again to you, and your heart shall
rejoice. Hallelujah.
GOSPEL. John 15:26—16: 4
BUT when the Comforter is come, whom I will send unto you from the Father, even the Spirit of
truth, which proceedeth from the Father, he shall testify of me: and ye also shall bear witness,
because ye have been with me from the beginning. These things have I spoken unto you, that ye
should not be offended. They shall put you out of the synagogues: yea, the time cometh, that
whosoever killeth you will think that he doeth God service. And these things will they do unto
you, because they have not known the Father, nor me. But these things have I told you, that when
the time shall come, ye may remember that I told you of them. And these things I said not unto
you at the beginning, because I was with you.

The Festival of Pentecost. Whitsunday
INTROIT
THE Spirit of the Lord filleth the world: Hallelujah.
Let the righteous be glad: let them rejoice before God: yea, let them exceedingly rejoice.
Hallelujah. Hallelujah.
Psalm. Let God arise; let His enemies be scattered! let them also that hate Him flee before Him.
Glory be to the Father, and to the Son, and to the Holy Ghost; as it was in the beginning, is now,
and ever shall be, world without end. Amen.
COLLECT
O GOD, Who didst teach the hearts of Thy faithful people, by sending to them the light of Thy
Holy Spirit: Grant us by the same Spirit to have a right judgment in all things, and evermore to
rejoice in His holy comfort; through Jesus Christ, Thy Son, our Lord, Who liveth and reigneth
with Thee and the Holy Ghost, ever One God, world without end. Amen.
EPISTLE. Acts 2:1-13

AND when the day of Pentecost was fully come, they were all with one accord in one place. And
suddenly there came a sound from heaven as of a rushing mighty wind, and it filled all the house
where they were sitting. And there appeared unto them cloven tongues like as of fire, and it sat
upon each of them. And they were all filled with the Holy Ghost, and began to speak with other
tongues, as the Spirit gave them utterance. And there were dwelling at Jerusalem Jews, devout
men, out of every nation under heaven. Now when this was noised abroad, the multitude came
together, and were confounded, because that every man heard them speak in his own language.
And they were all amazed and marveled, saying one to another, Behold, are not all these which
speak Galilaeans? And how hear we every man in our own tongue, wherein we were born?
Parthians, and Medes, and Elamites, and the dwellers in Mesopotamia, and in Judaea, and
Cappadocia, in Pontus, and Asia, Phrygia, and Pamphylia, in Egypt, and in the parts of Libya
about Cyrene, and strangers of Rome, Jews and proselytes, Cretes and Arabians, we do hear
them speak in our tongues the wonderful works of God. And they were all amazed, and were in
doubt, saying one to another. What meaneth this? Others mocking said, These men are full of
new wine.
GRADUAL
HALLELUJAH. Hallelujah.
V. Thou sendest forth Thy Spirit, they are created: and Thou renewest the face of the earth.
Hallelujah.
V. Come, Holy Spirit, fill the hearts of the faithful: and kindle in them the fire of Thy love.
Hallelujah.
GOSPEL. John 14:23-31
JESUS answered and said unto him, If a man love me, he will keep my words: and my Father
will love him, and we will come unto him, and make our abode with him. He that loveth me not
keepeth not my sayings: and the word which ye hear is not mine, but the Father’s which sent me.
These things have I spoken unto you, being yet present with you. But the Comforter, which is the
Holy Ghost, whom the Father will send in my name, he shall teach you all things, and bring all
things to your remembrance, whatsoever I have said unto you. Peace I leave with you, my peace
I give unto you: not as the world giveth, give I unto you. Let not your heart be troubled, neither
let it be afraid. Ye have heard how I said unto you, I go away, and come again unto you. If ye
loved me, ye would rejoice, because I said, I go unto the Father: for my Father is greater than I.
And now I have told you before it come to pass, that, when it is come to pass, ye might believe.
Hereafter I will not talk much with you: for the prince of this world cometh, and hath nothing in
me. But that the world may know that I love the Father; and as the Father gave me
commandment, even so I do. Arise, let us go hence.

The Monday in Whitsun-week
INTROIT and GRADUAL the same as for WHITSUNDAY.
COLLECT
O GOD, Who didst give Thy Holy Spirit to Thine Apostles: Grant unto Thy people the
performance of their petitions, so that on us to whom Thou hast given faith, Thou mayest also

bestow peace; through Jesus Christ, Thy Son, our Lord, Who liveth and reigneth with Thee and
the Holy Ghost, ever One God, world without end. Amen.
EPISTLE. Acts 10: 42-48
AND he commanded us to preach unto the people, and to testify that it is he which was ordained
of God to be the Judge of quick and dead. To him give all the prophets witness, that through his
name whosoever believeth in him shall receive remission of sins. While Peter yet spake these
words, the Holy Ghost fell on all them which heard the word. And they of the circumcision
which believed were astonished, as many as came with Peter, because that on the Gentiles also
was poured out the gift of the Holy Ghost. For they heard them speak with tongues, and magnify
God. Then answered Peter, Can any man forbid water, that these should not be baptized, which
have received the Holy Ghost as well as we? And he commanded them to be baptized in the
name of the Lord.
GOSPEL. John 3:16-21
FOR God so loved the world, that he gave his only begotten Son, that whosoever believeth in
him should not perish, but have everlasting life. For God sent not his Son into the world to
condemn the world; but that the world through him might be saved. He that believeth on him is
not condemned: but he that believeth not is condemned already, because he hath not believed in
the name of the only begotten Son of God. And this is the condemnation, that light is come into
the world, and men loved darkness rather than light, because their deeds were evil. For every one
that doeth evil hateth the light, neither cometh to the light, lest his deeds should be reproved. But
he that doeth truth cometh to the light, that his deeds may be made manifest, that they are
wrought in God.

The Festival of the Holy Trinity
INTROIT
BLESSED be the Holy Trinity, and the undivided Unity: Let us give glory to Him because He
hath shown His mercy to us.
Psalm. O Lord, our Lord: how excellent is Thy Name in all the earth.
Glory be to the Father, and to the Son, and to the Holy Ghost; as it was in the beginning, is now,
and ever shall be, world without end. Amen.
Or,
HOLY, Holy, Holy, is the Lord of Hosts: of Him, and through Him, and to Him, are all things.
Psalm. O Lord, our Lord: how excellent is Thy Name in all the earth.
Glory be to the Father, and to the Son, and to the Holy Ghost; as it was in the beginning, is now,
and ever shall be, world without end. Amen.
COLLECT
ALMIGHTY and Everlasting God, Who hast given unto us, Thy servants, grace, by the
confession of a true faith, to acknowledge the glory of the Eternal Trinity, and in the power of
the Divine Majesty to worship the Unity: We beseech Thee, that Thou wouldest keep us steadfast

in this faith, and evermore defend us from all adversities; Who livest and reignest, One God,
world without end. Amen.
EPISTLE. Romans 11: 33-36
O THE depth of the riches both of the wisdom and knowledge of God! how unsearchable are his
judgments, and his ways past finding out! For who hath known the mind of the Lord? or who
hath been his counsellor? Or who hath first given to him, and it shall be recompensed unto him
again? For of him, and through him, and to him, are all things: to whom be glory for ever. Amen.
GRADUAL
BLESSED art Thou, O Lord, Who beholdest the deep: and Who dwellest between the cherubim.
V. Blessed art Thou, O Lord, in the firmament of heaven: and greatly to be praised, and glorified,
and highly exalted forever. Hallelujah. Hallelujah.
V. Blessed art Thou, O Lord God of our fathers: and greatly to be praised and glorified forever.
Hallelujah.
GOSPEL. John 3:1-15
THERE was a man of the Pharisees, named Nicodemus, a ruler of the Jews: the same came to
Jesus by night, and said unto him, Rabbi, we know that thou art a teacher come from God: for no
man can do these miracles that thou doest, except God be with him. Jesus answered and said
unto him, Verily, verily, I say unto thee, Except a man be born again, he cannot see the kingdom
of God. Nicodemus saith unto him, How can a man be born when he is old? can he enter the
second time into his mother’s womb, and be born? Jesus answered, Verily, verily, I say unto
thee, Except a man be born of water and of the Spirit, he cannot enter into the kingdom of God.
That which is born of the flesh is flesh; and that which is born of the Spirit is spirit. Marvel not
that I said unto thee, Ye must be born again. The wind bloweth where it listeth, and thou hearest
the sound thereof, but canst not tell whence it cometh, and whither it goeth: so is every one that
is born of the Spirit. Nicodemus answered and said unto him. How can these things be? Jesus
answered and said unto him, Art thou a master of Israel, and knowest not these things? Verily,
verily, I say unto thee. We speak that we do know, and testify that we have seen: and ye receive
not our witness. If I have told you earthly things, and ye believe not, how shall ye believe, if I tell
you of heavenly things? And no man hath ascended up to heaven, but he that came down from
heaven, even the Son of man which is in heaven. And as Moses lifted up the serpent in the
wilderness, even so must the Son of man be lifted up: that whosoever believeth in him should not
perish, but have eternal life.

The First Sunday after Trinity
INTROIT
O LORD, I have trusted in Thy mercy: my heart shall rejoice in Thy salvation.
I will sing unto the Lord: because He hath dealt bountifully with me.
Psalm. How long wilt Thou forget me, O Lord: how long wilt Thou hide Thy face from me?
Glory be to the Father, and to the Son, and to the Holy Ghost; as it was in the beginning, is now,
and ever shall be, world without end. Amen.

COLLECT
O GOD, the Strength of all them that put their trust in Thee: Mercifully accept our prayers: and
because through the weakness of our mortal nature we can do no good thing without Thee, grant
us the help of Thy grace, that in keeping Thy commandments we may please Thee, both in will
and deed: through Jesus Christ. Thy Son, our Lord, Who liveth and reigneth with Thee and the
Holy Ghost, ever One God, world without end. Amen.
EPISTLE. 1 John 4:16-21
GOD is love; and he that dwelleth in love dwelleth in God, and God in him. Herein is our love
made perfect, that we may have boldness in the day of judgment: because as he is, so are we in
this world. There is no fear in love; but perfect love casteth out fear: because fear hath torment.
He that feareth is not made perfect in love. We love him. because he first loved us. If a man say,
I love God, and hateth his brother, he is a liar: for he that loveth not his brother whom he hath
seen, how can he love God whom he hath not seen? And this commandment have we from him,
That he who loveth God love his brother also.
GRADUAL
I SAID, Lord, be merciful unto me: heal my soul, for I have sinned against Thee.
V. Blessed is He that considereth the poor I the Lord will deliver him in time of trouble.
Hallelujah. Hallelujah.
V. O Lord my God, in Thee do I put my trust: save me from all them that persecute me, and
deliver me. Hallelujah.
GOSPEL. Luke 16:19-31
THERE was a certain rich man, which was clothed in purple and fine linen, and fared
sumptuously every day: and there was a certain beggar named Lazarus, which was laid at his
gate full of sores, and desiring to be fed with the crumbs which fell from the rich man’s table:
moreover the dogs came and licked his sores. And it came to pass, that the beggar died, and was
carried by the angels into Abraham’s bosom: the rich man also died, and was buried; and in hell
he lift up his eyes, being in torments, and seeth Abraham afar off, and Lazarus in his bosom. And
he cried and said, Father Abraham, have mercy on me, and send Lazarus, that he may dip the tip
of his finger in water, and cool my tongue; for I am tormented in this flame. But Abraham said,
Son, remember that thou in thy lifetime receivedst thy good things, and likewise Lazarus evil
things: but now he is comforted, and thou art tormented. And beside all this, between us and you
there is a great gulf fixed: so that they which would pass from hence to you cannot; neither can
they pass to us, that would come from thence. Then he said, I pray thee therefore, father, that
thou wouldest send him to my father’s house: for I have five brethren; that he may testify unto
them, lest they also come into this place of torment. Abraham saith unto him, They have Moses
and the prophets; let them hear them. And he said, Nay, father Abraham: but if one went unto
them from the dead, they will repent. And he said unto him, If they hear not Moses and the
prophets, neither will they be persuaded, though one rose from the dead.

The Second Sunday after Trinity
INTROIT

THE Lord was my Stay: He brought me forth also into a large place.
He delivered me: because He delighted in me.
Psalm. I will love Thee, Lord, my Strength: The Lord is my Rock, and my Fortress.
Glory be to the Father, and to the Son, and to the Holy Ghost; as it was in the beginning, is now,
and ever shall be, world without end. Amen.
COLLECT
O LORD, Who never failest to help and govern those whom Thou dost bring up in Thy steadfast
fear and love: Make us to have a perpetual fear and love of Thy holy Name; through Jesus
Christ, Thy Son, our Lord, Who liveth and reigneth with Thee and the Holy Ghost, ever One
God, world without end. Amen.
EPISTLE. 1 John 3:13-18
MARVEL not, my brethren, if the world hate you We know that we have passed from death unto
life, because we love the brethren. He that loveth no his brother abideth in death. Whosoever
hateth his brother is a murderer: and ye know that no murderer hath eternal life abiding in him.
Hereby perceive we the love of God, because he laid down his life for us: and we ought to lay
down our lives for the brethren. But whoso hath this world’s good, and seeth his brother have
need, and shutteth up his bowels of compassion from him, how dwelleth the love of God in him?
My little children, let us not love in word, neither in tongue but in deed and in truth.
GRADUAL
IN my distress I cried unto the Lord: and He heard me.
V. Deliver my soul, O Lord, from lying lips: and from a deceitful tongue. Hallelujah. Hallelujah.
V. I will praise the Lord according to His righteousness: and will sing praise to the Name of the
Lord Most High. Hallelujah.
GOSPEL. Luke 14:16-24
THEN said he unto him, A certain man made a great supper, and bade many: and sent his servant
a supper time to say to them that were bidden, Come; for all things are now ready. And they all
with one consent began to make excuse. The first said unto him, I have bought a piece of ground,
and I must needs go and see it. I pray thee have me excused. And another said, I have bought
five yoke of oxen, and I go to prove them: I pray thee have me excused. And another said, I have
married a wife, and therefore I cannot come. So that servant came and showed his lord these
things. Then the master of the house being angry said to his servant, Go out quickly into the
streets and lanes of the city, and bring in hither the poor, and the maimed, and the halt, and the
blind. And the servant said, Lord, it is done as thou hast commanded, and yet there is room. And
the lord said unto the servant, Go out into the highways and hedges, and compel them to come
in, that my house may be filled. For I say unto you, That none of those men which were bidden
shall taste of my supper.

The Third Sunday after Trinity
INTROIT
TURN Thee unto me, and have mercy upon me: for I am desolate and afflicted.

Look upon mine affliction and my pain: and forgive all my sins.
Psalm. Unto Thee, O Lord, do I lift up my soul: my God, I trust in Thee, let me not be ashamed.
Glory be to the Father, and to the Son, and to the Holy Ghost; as it was in the beginning, is now,
and ever shall be, world without end. Amen.
COLLECT
O GOD, the Protector of all that trust in Thee, without Whom nothing is strong, nothing is holy:
Increase and multiply upon us Thy mercy: that Thou being our Ruler and Guide, we may so pass
through things temporal, that we finally lose not the things eternal: through Jesus Christ, Thy
Son, our Lord, Who liveth and reigneth with Thee and the Holy Ghost, ever One God, world
without end. Amen.
EPISTLE. 1 Peter 5: 6-11
HUMBLE yourselves therefore under the mighty hand of God, that he may exalt you in due
time: casting all your care upon him; for he careth for you. Be sober, be vigilant; because your
adversary the devil, as a roaring lion, walketh about, seeking whom he may devour: whom resist
steadfast in the faith, knowing that the same afflictions are accomplished in your brethren that
are in the world. But the God of all grace, who hath called us unto his eternal glory by Christ
Jesus, after that ye have suffered a while, make you perfect, stablish, strengthen, settle you. To
him be glory and dominion for ever and ever. Amen.
GRADUAL
CAST thy burden upon the Lord: and He shall sustain thee.
V. I will call upon God; and the Lord shall save me: He hath delivered mv soul in peace.
Hallelujah. Hallelujah,
V. I will love Thee, O Lord, my Strength: The Lord is my Rock, and my Fortress, and my
Deliverer. Hallelujah.
GOSPEL. Luke 15:1-10
THEN drew near unto him all the publicans and sinners for to hear him. And the Pharisees and
scribes murmured, saying, This man receiveth sinners, and eateth with them. And he spake this
parable unto them, saying, What man of you, having an hundred sheep, if he lose one of them,
doth not leave the ninety and nine in the wilderness, and go after that which is lost, until he find
it? And when he hath found it, he layeth it on his shoulders, rejoicing. And when he cometh
home, he calleth together his friends and neighbours, saying unto them, Rejoice with me; for I
have found my sheep which was lost. I say unto you, that likewise joy shall be in heaven over
one sinner that repenteth, more than over ninety and nine just persons, which need no repentance.
Either what woman having ten pieces of silver, if she lose one piece, doth not light a candle, and
sweep the house, and seek diligently till she find it? And when she hath found it, she calleth her
friends and her neighbours together, saying, Rejoice with me; for I have found the piece which I
had lost. Likewise, I say unto you, there is joy in the presence of the angels of God over one
sinner that repenteth.

The Fourth Sunday after Trinity

INTROIT
THE Lord is my Light and my Salvation; whom shall I fear: The Lord is the strength of my life;
of whom shall I be afraid?
When the wicked, even mine enemies and my foes, came upon me: they stumbled and fell.
Psalm. Though an host should encamp against me: my heart shall not fear.
Glory be to the Father, and to the Son, and to the Holy Ghost; as it was in the beginning, is now,
and ever shall be, world without end. Amen.
COLLECT
GRANT, Lord, we beseech Thee, that the course of this world may be so peaceably ordered by
Thy governance, that Thy Church may joyfully serve Thee in all godly quietness; through Jesus
Christ, Thy Son, our Lord, Who liveth and reigneth with Thee and the Holy Ghost, ever One
God, world without end. Amen.
EPISTLE. Romans 8:18-23
FOR I reckon that the sufferings of this present time are not worthy to be compared with the
glory which shall be revealed in us. For the earnest expectation of the creature waiteth for the
manifestation of the sons of God. For the creature was made subject to vanity, not willingly, but
by reason of him who hath subjected the same in hope, because the creature itself also shall be
delivered from the bondage of corruption into the glorious liberty of the children of God. For we
know that the whole creation groaneth and travaileth in pain together until now. And not only
they, but ourselves also, which have the firstfruits of the Spirit, even we ourselves groan within
ourselves, waiting for the adoption, to wit, the redemption of our body.
GRADUAL
FORGIVE our sins, O Lord: lest the heathen say, Where is their God?
V. Help us, O God of our salvation: and for the glory of Thy Name, deliver us. Hallelujah.
Hallelujah.
V. The king shall joy in Thy strength, O Lord and in Thy salvation how greatly shall he rejoice!
Hallelujah.
GOSPEL. Luke 6: 36-42
BE ye therefore merciful, as your Father also is merciful. Judge not, and ye shall not be judged:
condemn not, and ye shall not be condemned: forgive, and ye shall be forgiven: give, and it shall
be given unto you; good measure, pressed down, and shaken together, and running over, shall
men give into your bosom. For with the same measure that ye mete withal it shall be measured to
you again. And he spake a parable unto them, Can the blind lead the blind? shall they not both
fall into the ditch? The disciple is not above his master: but every one that is perfect shall be as
his master. And why beholdest thou the mote that is in thy brother’s eye, but perceivest not the
beam that is in thine own eye? Either how canst thou say to thy brother, Brother, let me pull out
the mote that is in thine eye, when thou thyself beholdest not the beam that is in thine own eye?
Thou hypocrite, cast out first the beam out of thine own eye, and then shalt thou see clearly to
pull out the mote that is in thy brother’s eye.

The Fifth Sunday after Trinity

INTROIT
HEAR, O Lord, when I cry with my voice: Thou hast been my help.
Leave me not, neither forsake me: God of my Salvation.
Psalm. The Lord is my Light and my Salvation: whom shall I fear?
Glory be to the Father, and to the Son, and to the Holy Ghost; as it was in the beginning, is now,
and ever shall be, world without end. Amen.
COLLECT
O GOD, Who hast prepared for them that love Thee such good things as pass man’s
understanding: Pour into our hearts such love toward Thee, that we, loving Thee above all things,
may obtain Thy promises, which exceed all that we can desire; through Jesus Christ, Thy Son,
our Lord, Who liveth and reigneth with Thee and the Holy Ghost, ever One God, world without
end. Amen.
EPISTLE. 1 Peter 3: 8-15
FINALLY, be ye all of one mind, having compassion one of another, love as brethren, be pitiful,
be courteous: not rendering evil for evil, or railing for railing: but contrariwise blessing; knowing
that ye are thereunto called, that ye should inherit a blessing. For he that will love life, and see
good days, let him refrain his tongue from evil, and his lips that they speak no guile: let him
eschew evil, and do good: let him seek peace, and ensue it. For the eyes of the Lord are over the
righteous, and his ears are open unto their prayers: but the face of the Lord is against them that
do evil. And who is he that will harm you, if ye be followers of that which is good? But and if ye
suffer for righteousness’ sake, happy are ye: and be not afraid of their terror, neither be troubled;
but sanctify the Lord God in your hearts.
GRADUAL
BEHOLD, God, our Shield: and look upon Thy servants.
V. O Lord God of hosts: hear our prayer. Hallelujah. Hallelujah.
V. In Thee, O Lord, do I put my trust ; let me never be ashamed: deliver me in Thy
righteousness. Hallelujah.
GOSPEL. Luke 5:1-11
AND it came to pass, that, as the people pressed upon him to hear the word of God, he stood by
the lake of Gennesaret, and saw two ships standing by the lake: but the fishermen were gone out
of them, and were washing their nets. And he entered into one of the ships, which was Simon’s,
and prayed him that he would thrust out a little from the land. And he sat down, and taught the
people out of the ship. Now when he had left speaking, he said unto Simon, Launch out into the
deep, and let down your nets for a draught. And Simon answering said unto him, Master, we
have toiled all the night, and have taken nothing: nevertheless at thy word I will let down the net.
And when they had this done, they inclosed a great multitude of fishes: and their net brake. And
they beckoned unto their partners, which were in the other ship, that they should come and help
them. And they came, and filled both the ships, so that they began to sink. When Simon Peter
saw it, he fell down at Jesus’ knees, saying, Depart from me; for I am a sinful man, Lord. For he
was astonished, and all that were with him, at the draught of the fishes which they had taken: and
so was also James, and John, the sons of Zebedee, which were partners with Simon. And Jesus

said unto Simon, Fear not; from henceforth thou shalt catch men. And when they had brought
their ships to land, they forsook all, and followed him.

The Sixth Sunday after Trinity
INTROIT
THE Lord is the strength of His people: He is the saving strength of His anointed.
Save Thy people, and bless Thine inheritance: feed them also, and lift them up forever.
Psalm. Unto Thee will I cry, O Lord, my Rock; be not silent unto me: lest if Thou be silent to
me, I become like them that go down into the pit.
Glory be to the Father, and to the Son, and to the Holy Ghost; as it was in the beginning, is now,
and ever shall be, world without end. Amen.
COLLECT
LORD of all power and might, Who art the Author and Giver of all good things: Graft in our
hearts the love of Thy Name, increase in us true religion, nourish us with all goodness, and of
Thy great mercy keep us in the same; through Jesus Christ, Thy Son, our Lord, Who liveth and
reigneth with Thee and the Holy Ghost, ever One God, world without end. Amen.
EPISTLE. Romans 6: 3-11
KNOW ye not, that so many of us as were baptized into Jesus Christ were baptized into his
death? Therefore we are buried with him by baptism into death: that like as Christ was raised up
from the dead by the glory of the Father, even so we also should walk in newness of life. For if
we have been planted together in the likeness of his death, we shall be also in the likeness of his
resurrection: knowing this, that our old man is crucified with him, that the body of sin might be
destroyed, that henceforth we should not serve sin. For he that is dead is freed from sin. Now if
we be dead with Christ, we believe that we shall also live with him: knowing that Christ being
raised from the dead dieth no more; death hath no more dominion over him. For in that he died,
he died unto sin once: but in that he liveth, he liveth unto God. Likewise reckon ye also
yourselves to be dead indeed unto sin, but alive unto God through Jesus Christ our Lord.
GRADUAL
RETURN, O Lord, how long: and let it repent Thee concerning Thy servants.
V. Lord, Thou hast been our dwelling place: in all generations. Hallelujah. Hallelujah.
V. O clap your hands, all ye people: shout unto God with the voice of triumph. Hallelujah.
GOSPEL. Matthew 5:20-26
FOR I say unto you, That except your righteousness shall exceed the righteousness of the scribes
and Pharisees, ye shall in no case enter into the kingdom of heaven. Ye have heard that it was
said by them of old time, Thou shalt not kill; and whosoever shall kill shall be in danger of the
judgment: but I say unto you, That whosoever is angry with his brother without a cause shall be
in danger of the judgment: and whosoever shall say to his brother, Raca, shall be in danger of the
council: but whosoever shall say, Thou fool, shall be in danger of hell fire. Therefore if thou
bring thy gift to the altar, and there rememberest that thy brother hath ought against thee; leave
there thy gift before the altar, and go thy way; first be reconciled to thy brother, and then come

and offer thy gift. Agree with thine adversary quickly, whiles thou art in the way with him; lest at
any time the adversary deliver thee to the judge, and the judge deliver thee to the officer, and
thou be cast into prison. Verily I say unto thee, Thou shalt by no means come out thence, till thou
hast paid the uttermost farthing.

The Seventh Sunday after Trinity
INTROIT
O CLAP your hands: all ye people.
Shout unto God: with the voice of triumph.
Psalm. He shall subdue the people under us: and the nations under our feet.
Glory be to the Father, and to the Son, and to the Holy Ghost; as it was in the beginning, is now,
and ever shall be, world without end. Amen.
COLLECT
O GOD, Whose never-failing Providence ordereth all things both in heaven and earth: We
humbly beseech Thee to put away from us all hurtful things. and to give us those things which be
profitable for us; through Jesus Christ. Thy Son, our Lord, Who liveth and reigneth with Thee
and the Holy Ghost., ever One God, world without end. Amen.
EPISTLE. Romans 6:19-23
I SPEAK after the manner of men because of the infirmity of your flesh: for as ye have yielded
your members servants to uncleanness and to iniquity unto iniquity: even so now yield your
members servants to righteousness unto holiness. For when ye were the servants of sin, ye were
free from righteousness. What fruit had ye then in those things whereof ye are now ashamed? for
the end of those things is death. But now being made free from sin, and become servants to God,
ye have your fruit unto holiness, and the end everlasting life, For the wages of sin is death: but
the gift of God is eternal life through Jesus Christ our Lord.
GRADUAL
COME, ye children, hearken unto me: I will teach you the fear of the Lord.
V. Look unto Him and be lightened: and let your faces not be ashamed. Hallelujah. Hallelujah.
V. Deliver me from mine enemies, my God: defend me from them that rise up against me.
Hallelujah.
GOSPEL. Mark 8:1-9
IN those days the multitude being very great, and having nothing to eat, Jesus called his disciples
unto him, and saith unto them, I have compassion on the multitude, because they have now been
with me three days, and have nothing to eat: and if I send them away fasting to their own houses,
they will faint by the way: for divers of them came from far. And his disciples answered him,
From whence can a man satisfy these men with bread here in the wilderness? And he asked
them, How many loaves have ye? And they said, Seven. And he commanded the people to sit
down on the ground: and he took the seven loaves, and gave thanks, and brake, and gave to his
disciples to set before them; and they did set them before the people. And they had a few small
fishes: and he blessed, and commanded to set them also before them. So they did eat, and were

filled: and they took up of the broken meat that was left seven baskets. And they that had eaten
were about four thousand: and he sent them away.

The Eighth Sunday after Trinity
INTROIT
WE have thought of Thy loving-kindness, O God: in the midst of Thy Temple.
According to Thy Name, O God, so is Thy praise unto the ends of the earth: Thy right hand is
full of righteousness.
Psalm. Great is the Lord, and greatly to be praised: in the city of our God, in the mountain of His
holiness.
Glory be to the Father, and to the Son, and to the Holy Ghost; as it was in the beginning, is now,
and ever shall be, world without end. Amen.
COLLECT
GRANT to us, Lord, we beseech Thee, the Spirit to think and do always such things as are right;
that we, who cannot do anything that is good without Thee, may by Thee be enabled to live
according to Thy will; through Jesus Christ, Thy Son, our Lord, Who liveth and reigneth with
Thee and the Holy Ghost, ever One God, world without end. Amen.
EPISTLE. Romans 8:12-17
THEREFORE, brethren, we are debtors, not to the flesh, to live after the flesh. For if ye live after
the flesh, ye shall die: but if ye through the Spirit do mortify the deeds of the body, ye shall live.
or as many as are led by the Spirit of God, they are the sons of God. For ye have not received the
spirit of bondage again to fear; but ye have received the Spirit of adoption, whereby we cry,
Abba, Father. The Spirit itself beareth witness with our spirit, that we are the children of God:
and if children, then heirs; heirs of God, and joint-heirs with Christ; if so be that we suffer with
him, that we may be also glorified together.
GRADUAL
BE Thou my strong Rock: for an house of defence to save me.
V. In Thee, O Lord, do I put my trust: let me never be ashamed. Hallelujah. Hallelujah.
V. The Lord knoweth the way of the righteous: but the way of the ungodly shall perish.
Hallelujah.
GOSPEL. Matthew 7:15-23
BEWARE of false prophets, which come to you in sheep’s clothing, but inwardly they are
ravening wolves. Ye shall know them by their fruits. Do men gather grapes of thorns, or figs of
thistles? Even so every good tree bringeth forth good fruit; but a corrupt tree bringeth forth evil
fruit. A good tree cannot bring forth evil fruit, neither can a corrupt tree bring forth good fruit.
Every tree that bringeth not forth good fruit is hewn down, and cast into the fire. Wherefore by
their fruits ye shall know them. Not every one that saith unto me, Lord, Lord, shall enter into the
kingdom of heaven; but he that doeth the will of my Father which is in heaven. Many will say to
me in that day, Lord, Lord, have we not prophesied in thy name? and in thy name have cast out

devils? and in thy name done many wonderful works? And then will I profess unto them, I never
knew you: depart from me, ye that work iniquity.

The Ninth Sunday after Trinity
INTROIT
BEHOLD, God is mine Helper: the Lord is with them that uphold my soul.
He shall reward evil unto mine enemies: cut them off in Thy truth, O Lord.
Psalm. Save me, O God, by Thy Name: and judge me by Thy strength.
Glory be to the Father, and to the Son, and to the Holy Ghost; as it was in the beginning, is now,
and ever shall be, world without end. Amen.
COLLECT
LET Thy merciful ears, O Lord, be open to the prayers of Thy humble servants: and, that they
may obtain their petitions, make them to ask such things as shall please Thee; through Jesus
Christ, Thy Son, our Lord, Who liveth and reigneth with Thee and the Holy Ghost, ever One
God, world without end. Amen.
EPISTLE. 1 Corinthians 10:6-13
NOW these things were our examples, to the intent we should not lust after evil things, as they
also lusted. Neither be ye idolaters, as were some of them; as it is written, The people sat down
to eat and drink, and rose up to play. Neither let us commit fornication, as some of them
committed, and fell in one day three and twenty thousand. Neither let us tempt Christ, as some of
them also tempted, and were destroyed of serpents. Neither murmur ye, as some of them also
murmured, and were destroyed of the destroyer. Now all these things happened unto them, for
ensamples: and they are written for our admonition, upon whom the ends of the world are come.
Wherefore let him that thinketh he standeth take heed lest he fall. There hath no temptation taken
you but such as is common to man: but God is faithful, who will not suffer you to be tempted
above that ye are able; but will with the temptation also make a way to escape, that ye may be
able to bear it.
GRADUAL
OLORD, our Lord, how excellent is Thy Name in all the earth: Who hast set Thy glory above the
heavens. Hallelujah. Hallelujah.
V. Give ear, O My people, to My law: incline your ears to the words of My mouth. Hallelujah.
GOSPEL. Luke 16:1-9
AND he said also unto his disciples, There was a certain rich man, which had a steward; and the
same was accused unto him that he had wasted his goods. And he called him, and said unto him,
How is it that I hear this of thee? give an account of thy stewardship; for thou mayest be no
longer steward. Then the steward said within himself, What shall I do? For my lord taketh away
from me the stewardship: I cannot dig; to beg I am ashamed. I am resolved what to do, that,
when I am put out of the stewardship, they may receive me into their houses. So he called every
one of his lord’s debtors unto him, and said unto the first, How much owest thou unto my lord?
And he said, An hundred measures of oil. And he said unto him, Take thy bill, and sit down

quickly, and write fifty. Then said he to another, And how much owest thou? And he said, An
hundred measures of wheat. And he said unto him, Take thy bill, and write fourscore. And the
lord commended the unjust steward, because he had done wisely: for the children of this world
are in their generation wiser than the children of light. And I say unto you, Make to yourselves
friends of the mammon of unrighteousness; that, when ye fail, they may receive you into
everlasting habitations.

The Tenth Sunday after Trinity
INTROIT
AS for me, I will call upon God, and He shall hear my voice: He hath delivered my soul in peace
from the battle that was against me.
God shall hear and afflict them, even He that abideth of old: Cast thy burden upon the Lord, and
He shall sustain thee.
Psalm. Give ear to my prayer, O God: and hide not Thyself from my supplication.
Glory be to the Father, and to the Son, and to the Holy Ghost; as it was in the beginning, is now,
and ever shall be, world without end. Amen.
COLLECT
O GOD, Who declarest Thine almighty power chiefly in showing mercy and pity: Mercifully
grant unto us such a measure of Thy grace, that we, running the way of Thy commandments,
may obtain Thy gracious promises, and be made partakers of Thy heavenly treasure; through
Jesus Christ, Thy Son, our Lord, Who liveth and reigneth with Thee and the Holy Ghost, ever
One God, world without end. Amen.
TRINITY 131
EPISTLE. 1 Corinthians 1-2:1-11
NOW concerning spiritual gifts, brethren, I would not have you ignorant. Ye know that ye were
Gentiles, carried away unto these dumb idols, even as ye were led. Wherefore I give you to
understand, that no man speaking by the Spirit of God calleth Jesus accursed: and that no man
can say that Jesus is the Lord, but by the Holy Ghost. Now there are diversities of gifts, but the
same Spirit. And there are differences of administrations, but the same Lord. And there are
diversities of operations, but it is the same God which worketh all in all. But the manifestation of
the Spirit is given to every man to profit withal. For to one is given by the Spirit the word of
wisdom: to another the word of knowledge by the same Spirit; to another faith by the same
Spirit; to another the gifts of healing by the same Spirit; to another the working of miracles; to
another prophecy; to another discerning of spirits; to another divers kinds of tongues; to another
the interpretation of tongues: but all these worketh that one and the selfsame Spirit, dividing to
every man severally as he will.
GRADUAL
KEEP me, Lord, as the apple of the eye: hide me under the shadow of Thy wings.
V. Let my sentence come forth from Thy presence: let Thine eyes behold the things that are
equal. Hallelujah. Hallelujah.

V. Deliver me from mine enemies, my God I defend me from them that rise up against me.
Hallelujah.
GOSPEL. Luke 19: 41-48
AND when he was come near, he beheld the city, and wept over it, saying. If thou hadst known,
even thou, at least in this thy day. the things which belong unto thy peace! but now they are hid
from thine eyes. For the days shall come upon thee, that thine enemies shall cast a trench about
thee, and compass thee round, and keep thee in on every side, and shall lay thee even with the
ground, and thy children within thee; and they shall not leave in thee one stone upon another;
because thou knewest not the time of thy visitation. And he went into the temple, and began to
cast out them that sold therein, and them that bought; saying unto them, It is written, My house is
the house of prayer: but ye have made it a den of thieves. And he taught daily in the temple. But
the chief priests and the scribes and the chief of the people sought to destroy him, and could not
find what they might do: for all the people were very attentive to hear him.

The Eleventh Sunday after Trinity
INTROIT
GOD is in His holy habitation: He is God Who setteth the solitary in families.
The God of Israel is He that giveth strength: and power unto His people.
Psalm. Let God arise, let His enemies be scattered: let them also that hate Him flee before Him.
Glory be to the Father, and to the Son, and to the Holy Ghost; as it was in the beginning, is now,
and ever shall be, world without end. Amen.
COLLECT
ALMIGHTY and Everlasting God, Who art always more ready to hear than we to pray, and art
wont to give more than either we desire or deserve: Pour down upon us the abundance of Thy
mercy, forgiving us those things whereof our conscience is afraid, and giving us those good
things which we are not worthy to ask, but through the merits and mediation of Jesus Christ, Thy
Son, our Lord, Who liveth and reigneth with Thee and the Holy Ghost, ever One God, world
without end. Amen.
EPISTLE. 1 Corinthians 15:1-10
MOREOVER, brethren, I declare unto you the gospel which I preached unto you, which also ye
have received, and wherein ye stand; by which also ye are saved, if ye keep in memory what I
preached unto you, unless ye have believed in vain. For I delivered unto you first of all that
which I also received, how that Christ died for our sins according to the scriptures; and that he
was buried, and that he rose again the third day according to the scriptures: and that he was seen
of Cephas, then of the twelve: after that, he was seen of above five hundred brethren at once; of
whom the greater part remain unto this present, but some are fallen asleep. After that, he was
seen of James; then of all the apostles. And last of all he was seen of me also, as of one born out
of due time. For I am the least of the apostles, that am not meet to be called an apostle, because I
persecuted the church of God. But by the grace of God I am what I am: and his grace which was
bestowed upon me was not in vain ; but I laboured more abundantly than they all: yet not I, but
the grace of God which was with me.

GRADUAL
MY heart trusteth in God, and I am helped: therefore my heart greatly rejoiceth; and with my
song will I praise Him.
V. Unto Thee will I cry, O Lord my Rock: be not silent to me. Hear the voice of my
supplications. Hallelujah. Hallelujah.
V. Praise waiteth for Thee, God, in Sion: and unto Thee shall the vow be performed. Hallelujah.
GOSPEL. Luke 18: 9-14
AND he spake this parable unto certain which trusted in themselves that they were righteous, and
despised others: Two men went up into the temple to pray; the one a Pharisee, and the other a
publican. The Pharisee stood and prayed thus with himself, God, I thank thee, that I am not as
other men are, extortioners, unjust, adulterers, or even as this publican. I fast twice in the week, I
give tithes of all that I possess. And the publican, standing afar off, would not lift up so much as
his eyes unto heaven, but smote upon his breast, saying, God be merciful to me a sinner. I tell
you, this man went down to his house justified rather than the other: for every one that exalteth
himself shall be abased; and he that humbleth himself shall be exalted.

The Twelfth Sunday after Trinity
INTROIT
MAKE haste, O God, to deliver me: make haste to help me, O Lord.
Let them be ashamed and confounded: that seek after my soul.
Psalm. Let them be turned backward, and put to confusion that desire my hurt.
Glory be to the Father, and to the Son, and to the Holy Ghost; as it was in the beginning, is now,
and ever shall be, world without end. Amen.
COLLECT
ALMIGHTY and Merciful God, of Whose only gift it cometh that Thy faithful people do unto
Thee true and laudable service: Grant, we beseech Thee, that we may so faithfully serve Thee in
this life, that we fail not finally to attain Thy heavenly promises; through Jesus Christ, Thy Son,
our Lord, Who liveth and reigneth with Thee and the Holy Ghost, ever One God, world without
end. Amen.
EPISTLE. 2 Corinthians 3:4-11
AND such trust have we through Christ to God ward: not that we are sufficient of ourselves to
think any thing as of ourselves; but our sufficiency is of God; who also hath made us able
ministers of the new testament; not of the letter, but of the spirit: for the letter killeth, but the
spirit giveth life. But if the ministration of death, written and engraven in stones, was glorious, so
that the children of Israel could not stedfastly behold the face of Moses for the glory of his
countenance; which glory was to be done away: how shall not the ministration of the spirit be
rather glorious? For if the ministration of condemnation be glory, much more doth the
ministration of righteousness exceed in glory. For even that which was made glorious had no
glory in this respect, by reason of the glory that excelleth. For if that which is done away was
glorious, much more that which remaineth is glorious.

GRADUAL
I WILL bless the Lord at all times: His praise shall continually be in my mouth.
V. My soul shall make her boast in the Lord I the humble shall hear thereof and be glad.
Hallelujah. Hallelujah.
V. Sing aloud unto God our Strength: make a joyful noise unto the God of Jacob. Hallelujah.
GOSPEL. Mark 7: 31-37
AND again, departing from the coasts of Tyre and Sidon, he came unto the sea of Galilee,
through the midst of the coasts of Decapolis. And they bring unto him one that was deaf, and had
an impediment in his speech; and they beseech him to put his hand upon him. And he took him
aside from the multitude, and put his fingers into his ears, and he spit, and touched his tongue;
and looking up to heaven, he sighed, and saith unto him, Ephphatha, that is, Be opened. And
straightway his ears were opened, and the string of his tongue was loosed, and he spake plain.
And he charged them that they should tell no man: but the more he charged them, so much the
more a great deal they published it; and were beyond measure astonished, saying. He hath done
all things well: he maketh both the deaf to hear, and the dumb to speak.

The Thirteenth Sunday after Trinity
INTROIT
HAVE respect, O Lord, unto Thy covenant: O let not the oppressed return ashamed.
Arise, O God, plead Thine own cause: And forget not the voice of Thine enemies.
Psalm. O God, why hast Thou cast us off forever I why doth Thine anger smoke against the
sheep of Thy pasture?
Glory be to the Father, and to the Son, and to the Holy Ghost; as it was in the beginning, is now,
and ever shall be, world without end. Amen.
COLLECT
ALMIGHTY and Everlasting God, give unto us the it increase of faith, hope, and charity; and
that we may obtain that which Thou dost promise, make us to love that which Thou dost
command; through Jesus Christ, Thy Son, our Lord, Who liveth and reigneth with Thee and the
Holy Ghost, ever One God, world without end. Amen.
EPISTLE. Galatians 3:15-22
BRETHREN, I speak after the manner of men; Though it be but a man’s covenant, yet if it be
confirmed, no man disannulleth, or addeth thereto. Now to Abraham and his seed were the
promises made. He saith not, And to seeds, as of many; but as of one. And to thy seed, which is
Christ. And this I say, that the covenant, that was confirmed before of God in Christ, the law,
which was four hundred and thirty years after, cannot disannul, that it should make the promise
of none effect. For if the inheritance be of the law, it is no more of promise: but God gave it to
Abraham by promise. Wherefore then serveth the law? It was added because of transgressions,
till the seed should come to whom the promise was made; and it was ordained by angels in the
hand of a mediator. Now a mediator is not a mediator of one, but God is one. Is the law then
against the promises of God? God forbid: for if there had been a law given which could have

given life, verily righteousness should have been by the law. But the scripture hath concluded all
under sin, that the promise by faith of Jesus Christ might be given to them that believe.
GRADUAL
HAVE respect, O Lord, unto Thy covenant: O let not the oppressed return ashamed,
V. Arise, O God, plead Thine own cause: And forget not the voice of Thine enemies. Hallelujah.
Hallelujah.
V. O Lord God of my salvation: I have cried day and night before Thee. Hallelujah.
GOSPEL. Luke 10:23-37
AND he turned him unto his disciples, and said privately, Blessed are the eyes which see the
things that ye see: for I tell you, that many prophets and kings have desired to see those things
which ye see, and have not seen them; and to hear those things which ye hear, and have not
heard them. And, behold, a certain lawyer stood up, and tempted him, saying. Master, what shall
I do to inherit eternal life? He said unto him, What is written in the law? how readest thou? And
he answering said. Thou shalt love the Lord thy God with all thy heart, and with all thy soul, and
with all thy strength, and with all thy mind; and thy neighbour as thyself. And he said unto him.
Thou hast answered right: this do, and thou shalt live. But he, willing to justify himself, said unto
Jesus. And who is my neighbour? And Jesus answering said, A certain man went down from
Jerusalem to Jericho, and fell among thieves, which stripped him of his raiment, and wounded
him, and departed, leaving him half dead. And by chance there came down a certain priest that
way: and when he saw him, he passed by on the other side. And likewise a Levite, when he was
at the place, came and looked on him, and passed by on the other side. But a certain Samaritan,
as he journeyed, came where he was: and when he saw him, he had compassion on him, and
went to him, and bound up his wounds, pouring in oil and wine, and set him on his own beast,
and brought him to an inn, and took care of him. And on the morrow when he departed, he took
out two pence, and gave them to the host, and said unto him, Take care of him; and whatsoever
thou spendest more, when I come again, I will repay thee. Which now of these three, thinkest
thou, was neighbour unto him that fell among the thieves? And he said, He that showed mercy
on him. Then said Jesus unto him, Go, and do thou likewise.

The Fourteenth Sunday after Trinity
INTROIT
BEHOLD, O God our Shield: and look upon the face of Thine Anointed;
For a day in Thy courts: is better than a thousand.
Psalm. How amiable are Thy tabernacles, O Lord of Hosts: My soul longeth, yea, even fainteth
for the courts of the Lord.
Glory be to the Father, and to the Son, and to the Holy Ghost; as it was in the beginning, is now,
and ever shall be, world without end. Amen.
COLLECT
KEEP, we beseech Thee, O Lord, Thy Church with Thy perpetual mercy; and, because the frailty
of man without Thee cannot but fall, keep us ever by Thy help from all things hurtful, and lead

us to all things profitable to our salvation; through Jesus Christ, Thy Son, our Lord, Who liveth
and reigneth with Thee and the Holy Ghost, ever One God, world without end. Amen.
EPISTLE. Galatians 5:10-24
THIS I say then, Walk in the Spirit, and ye shall not fulfil the lust of the flesh. For the flesh
lusteth against the Spirit, and the Spirit against the flesh: and these are contrary the one to the
other: so that ye cannot do the things that ye would. But if ye be led of the Spirit, ye are not
under the law. Now the works of the flesh are manifest, which are these; Adultery, fornication,
uncleanness, lasciviousness, idolatry, witchcraft, hatred, variance, emulations, wrath, strife,
seditions, heresies, envyings, murders, drunkenness, revellings, and such like: of the which I tell
you before, as I have also told you in time past, that they which do such things shall not inherit
the kingdom of God. But the fruit of the Spirit is love, joy, peace, longsuffering, gentleness,
goodness, faith, meekness, temperance: against such there is no law. And they that are Christ’s
have crucified the flesh with the affections and lusts.
GRADUAL
IT is better to trust in the Lord: than to put confidence in man.
V. It is better to trust in the Lord: than to put confidence in princes. Hallelujah. Hallelujah.
V. Lord Thou hast been our dwelling place: in all generations. Hallelujah.
GOSPEL. Luke 17:11-19
AND it came to pass, as he went to Jerusalem, that he passed through the midst of Samaria and
Galilee. And as he entered into a certain village, there met him ten men that were lepers, which
stood afar off: and they lifted up their voices, and said, Jesus, Master, have mercy on us. And
when he saw them, he said unto them, Go show yourselves unto the priests. And it came to pass,
that, as they went, they were cleansed. And one of them, when he saw that he was healed, turned
back, and with a loud voice glorified God, and fell down on his face at his feet, giving him
thanks: and he was a Samaritan. And Jesus answering said. Were there not ten cleansed? but
where are the nine? There are not found that returned to give glory to God, save this stranger.
And he said unto him, Arise, go thy way: thy faith hath made thee whole.

The Fifteenth Sunday after Trinity
INTROIT
BOW down Thine ear, O Lord, hear me: O Thou, my God, save Thy servant that trusteth in
Thee.
Be merciful unto me, O Lord: for I cry unto Thee daily.
Psalm. Rejoice the soul of Thy servant: for unto Thee, Lord, do I lift up my soul.
Glory be to the Father, and to the Son, and to the Holy Ghost; as it was in the beginning, is now,
and ever shall be, world without end. Amen.
COLLECT
OLORD, we beseech Thee, let Thy continual pity cleanse and defend Thy Church: and because
it cannot continue in safety without Thy succor, preserve it evermore by Thy help and goodness:

through Jesus Christ, Thy Son, our Lord, Who liveth and reigneth with Thee and the Holy Ghost,
ever One God, world without end. Amen.
EPISTLE. Galatians 5: ^5—6:10
IF we live in the Spirit, let us also walk in the Spirit. Let us not be desirous of vain glory,
provoking one another, envying one another. Brethren, if a man be overtaken in a fault, ye which
are spiritual, restore such an one in the spirit of meekness: considering thy self, lest thou also be
tempted. Bear ye one another’s burdens, and so fulfil the law of Christ. For if a man think
himself to be something, when he is nothing, he deceiveth himself. But let every man prove his
own work, and then shall he have rejoicing in himself alone, and not in another. For every man
shall hear his own burden. Let him that is taught in the word communicate unto him that teacheth
in all good things. Be not deceived; God is not mocked: for whatsoever a man soweth, that shall
he also reap. For he that soweth to his flesh shall of the flesh reap corruption; but he that soweth
to the Spirit shall of the Spirit reap life everlasting. And let us not be weary in well doing: for in
due season we shall reap, if we faint not. As we have therefore opportunity, let us do good unto
all men, especially unto them who are of the household of faith.
GRADUAL
IT is a good thing to give thanks unto the Lord: and to sing praises unto Thy Name, O Most
High.
V. To show forth Thy lovingkindness in the morning: and Thy faithfulness every night.
Hallelujah. Hallelujah.
V. O God, my heart is fixed: I will sing and give praise, ever with my glory. Hallelujah.
GOSPEL. Matthew 6:24-34
NO man can serve two masters: for either he will hate the one. and love the other; or else he will
hold to the one, and despise the other. Ye cannot serve God and mammon. Therefore I say unto
you, Take no thought for your life, what ye shall eat, or what ye shall drink; nor yet for your
body, what ye shall put on. Is not the life more than meat, and the body than raiment? Behold the
fowls of the air: for they sow not. neither do they reap, nor gather into barns; yet your heavenly
Father feedeth them. Are ye not much better than they? Which of you by taking thought can add
one cubit unto his stature? And why take ye thought for raiment? Consider the lilies of the field,
how they grow; they toil not, neither do they spin: and yet I say unto you, That even Solomon in
all his glory was not arrayed like one of these. Wherefore, if God so clothe the grass of the field,
which to day is, and tomorrow is cast into the oven, shall he not much more clothe you, O ye of
little faith? Therefore take no thought, saying, What shall we eat? or, What shall we drink? or,
Wherewithal shall we be clothed? (For after all these things do the Gentiles seek:) for your
heavenly Father knoweth that ye have need of all these things. But seek ye first the kingdom of
God, and his righteousness; and all these things shall be added unto you. Take therefore no
thought for the morrow: for the morrow shall take thought for the things of itself. Sufficient unto
the day is the evil thereof.

The Sixteenth Sunday after Trinity
INTROIT

BE merciful unto me, O Lord: for I cry unto Thee daily.
For Thou, Lord, art good, and ready to forgive: and plenteous in mercy unto all them that call
upon Thee.
Psalm. Bow down Thine ear, O Lord, hear me: for I am poor and needy.
Glory be to the Father, and to the Son, and to the Holy Ghost; as it was in the beginning, is now,
and ever shall be, world without end. Amen.
COLLECT
LORD, we pray Thee, that Thy grace may always go before and follow after us, and make us
continually to be given to all good works; through Jesus Christ, Thy Son, our Lord, Who liveth
and reigneth with Thee and the Holy Ghost, ever One God, world without end. Amen.
EPISTLE. Ephesians 3:13-21
WHEREFORE I desire that ye faint not at my tribulations for you, which is your glory. For this
cause I bow my- knees unto the Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, of whom the whole family in
heaven and earth is named, that he would grant you, according to the riches of his glory, to be
strengthened with might by his Spirit in the inner man; that Christ may dwell in your hearts by
faith; that ye, being rooted and grounded in love, may be able to comprehend with all saints what
is the breadth, and length, and depth, and height; and to know the love of Christ, which passeth
knowledge, that ye might be filled with all the fullness of God. Now unto him that is able to do
exceeding abundantly above all that we ask or think, according to the power that worketh in us,
unto him be glory in the church by Christ Jesus throughout all ages, world without end. Amen.
GRADUAL
THE heathen shall fear the Name of the Lord: and all the kings of the earth Thy glory.
V. When the Lord shall build up Zion: He shall appear in His glory.
Hallelujah. Hallelujah. V. O sing unto the Lord a new song: for He hath done marvelous things.
Hallelujah.
GOSPEL. Luke 7:11-17
AND it came to pass the day after, that he went into a city called Nain; and many of his disciples
went with him, and much people. Now when he came nigh to the gate of the city, behold, there
was a dead man carried out, the only son of his mother, and she was a widow: and much people
of the city was with her. And when the Lord saw her, he had compassion on her, and said unto
her, Weep not. And he came and touched the bier: and they that bare him stood still. And he said,
Young man, I say unto thee, Arise. And he that was dead sat up, and began to speak. And he
delivered him to his mother. And there came a fear on all: and they glorified God, saying, That a
great prophet is risen up among us; and, That God hath visited his people. And this rumour of
him went forth throughout all Judaea, and throughout all the region round about.

The Seventeenth Sunday after Trinity
INTROIT
RIGHTEOUS art Thou, O Lord: and upright are Thy judgments.
Deal with Thy servant: according to Thy mercy.

Psalm. Blessed are the undefiled in the way: who walk in the law of the Lord.
Glory be to the Father, and to the Son, and to the Holy Ghost; as it was in the beginning, is now,
and ever shall be, world without end. Amen.
COLLECT
LORD, we beseech Thee, grant Thy people grace, to withstand the temptations of the devil, and
with pure hearts and minds to follow Thee, the only God; through Jesus Christ, Thy Son, our
Lord, Who liveth and reigneth with Thee and the Holy Ghost, ever One God, world without end.
Amen.
EPISTLE. Ephesians 4:1-6
I THEREFORE, the prisoner of the Lord, beseech you that ye walk worthy of the vocation
wherewith ye are called, with all lowliness and meekness, with longsuffering, forbearing one
another in love; endeavouring to keep the unity of the Spirit in the bond of peace. There is one
body, and one Spirit, even as ye are called in one hope of your calling; one Lord, one faith, one
baptism, one God and Father of all, who is above all, and through all, and in you all.
GRADUAL
BLESSED is the nation whose God is the Lord: and the people whom He hath chosen for His
own inheritance.
V. By the Word of the Lord were the heavens made: and all the host of them by the breath of His
month. Hallelujah. Hallelujah.
V. I love the Lord: because He hath heard my voice and my supplications.
Hallelujah.
GOSPEL. Luke 14:1-11
AND it came to pass, as he went into the house of one of the chief Pharisees to eat bread on the
sabbath day, that they watched him. And, behold, there was a certain man before him which had
the dropsy. And Jesus answering spake unto the lawyers and Pharisees, saying, Is it lawful to
heal on the sabbath day? And they held their peace. And he took him, and healed him, and let
him go; and answered them, saying, Which of you shall have an ass or an ox fallen into a pit, and
will not straightway pull him out on the sabbath day? And they could not answer him again to
these things. And he put forth a parable to those which were bidden, when he marked how they
chose out the chief rooms; saying unto them, When thou art bidden of any man to a wedding, sit
not down in the highest room; lest a more honourable man than thou be bidden of him; and he
that bade thee and him come and say to thee. Give this man place; and thou begin with shame to
take the lowest room. But when thou art bidden, go and sit down in the lowest room; that when
he that bade thee cometh, he may say unto thee. Friend, go up higher: then shalt thou have
worship in the presence of them that sit at meat with thee. For whosoever exalteth himself shall
be abased; and he that humbleth himself shall be exalted.

The Eighteenth Sunday after Trinity
INTROIT
REWARD them that wait for Thee, O Lord let Thy prophets be found faithful.

Hear the prayer of Thy servants: and of Thy people Israel.
Psalm. I was glad when they said unto me: Let us go into the house of the Lord.
Glory be to the Father, and to the Son, and to the Holy Ghost; as it was in the beginning, is now,
and ever shall be, world without end. Amen.
COLLECT
O GOD, forasmuch as without Thee we are not able to please Thee: Mercifully grant, that Thy
Holy Spirit may in all things direct and rule our hearts; through Jesus Christ, Thy Son, our Lord,
Who liveth and reigneth with Thee and the Holy Ghost, ever One God, world without end.
Amen.
EPISTLE. 1 Corinthians 1: 4-9
I THANK my God always on your behalf, for the grace of God which is given you by Jesus
Christ; that in every thing ye are enriched by him, in all utterance, and in all knowledge; even as
the testimony of Christ was confirmed in you: so that ye come behind in no gift; waiting for the
coming of our Lord Jesus Christ: who shall also confirm you unto the end, that ye may be
blameless in the day of our Lord Jesus Christ. God is faithful, by whom ye were called unto the
fellowship of his Son Jesus Christ our Lord.
GRADUAL
I WAS glad when they said unto me: Let us go into the house of the Lord.
V. Peace be within thy walls: and prosperity within thy palaces. Hallelujah. Hallelujah.
V. O praise the Lord, all ye nations: praise Him, all ye people. Hallelujah.
GOSPEL. Matthew 22: 34-4G
BUT when the Pharisees had heard that he had put the Sadducees to silence, they were gathered
together. Then one of them, which was a lawyer, asked him a question, tempting him, and
saying, Master, which is the great commandment in the law? Jesus said unto him, Thou shalt
love the Lord thy God with all thy heart, and with all thy soul, and with all thy mind. This is the
first and great commandment. And the second is like unto it, Thou shalt love thy neighbour as
thyself. On these two commandments hang all the law and the prophets. While the Pharisees
were gathered together, Jesus asked them, saying. What think ye of Christ? whose son is he?
They say unto him, The son of David. He saith unto them, How then doth David in spirit call him
Lord, saying, The Lord said unto my Lord, Sit thou on my right hand, till I make thine enemies
thy footstool? If David then call him Lord, how is he his son? And no man was able to answer
him a word, neither durst any man from that day forth ask him any more questions

The Nineteenth Sunday after Trinity
INTROIT
SAY unto my soul, I am thy salvation: The righteous cry, and the Lord heareth.
He delivereth them out of all their troubles: He is their God forever and ever.
Psalm. Give ear, O My people, to My law: incline your ears to the words of My mouth.
Glory be to the Father, and to the Son, and to the Holy Ghost; as it was in the beginning, is now,
and ever shall be, world without end. Amen.

COLLECT
O ALMIGHTY and most Merciful God, of Thy bountiful goodness keep us, we beseech Thee,
from all things that may hurt us; that we, being ready, both in body and soul, may cheerfully
accomplish those things that Thou wouldest have done; through Jesus Christ, Thy Son, our Lord.
Who liveth and reigneth with Thee and the Holy Ghost, ever One God, world without end.
Amen.
EPISTLE. Ephesians 4:22-28
THAT ye put off concerning the former conversation the old man, which is corrupt according to
the deceitful lusts: and be renewed in the spirit of your mind; and that ye put on the new man.
which after God is created in righteousness and true holiness. Wherefore putting away lying,
speak every man truth with his neighbour; for we are members one of another. Be ye angry, and
sin not: let not the sun go down upon your wrath; neither give place to the devil. Let him that
stole steal no more; but rather let him labour, working with his hands, the thing which is good,
that he may have to give to him that needeth.
GRADUAL
LET my prayer be set forth before Thee as incense: and the lifting up of my hands as the evening
sacrifice. Hallelujah. Hallelujah,
V. The right hand of the Lord is exalted: the right hand of the Lord doeth valiantly. Hallelujah.
GOSPEL. Matthew 9:1-8
AND he entered into a ship, and passed over, and came into his own city. And. behold, they
brought to him a man sick of the palsy, lying on a bed; and Jesus seeing their faith said unto the
sick of the palsy; Son, be of good cheer; thy sins be forgiven thee. And, behold, certain of the
scribes said within themselves, This man blasphemeth. And Jesus knowing their thoughts said,
Wherefore think ye evil in your hearts? For whether is easier, to say. Thy sins be forgiven thee;
or to say. Arise, and walk? Hut that ye may know that the Son of man hath power on earth to
forgive sins, (then saith he to the sick of the palsy,) Arise, take up thy bed, and go unto thine
house. And lie arose, and departed to his house. Hut when the multitudes saw it, they marveled,
and glorified God, which had given such power unto men.

The Twentieth Sunday after Trinity
INTROIT
THE Lord our God is righteous in all His works which He doeth: for we obeyed not His voice.
Give glory to Thy Name. O Lord: and deal with us according to the multitude of Thy mercies.
Psalm. Great is the Lord, and greatly to be praised: in the city of our God, in the mountain of His
holiness.
Glory be to the Father, and to the Son, and to the Holy Ghost; as it was in the beginning, is now,
and ever shall be, world without end. Amen.
COLLECT

GRANT, we beseech Thee, Merciful Lord, to Thy faithful people pardon and peace, that they
may be cleansed from all their sins, and serve Thee with a quiet mind; through Jesus Christ, Thy
Son, our Lord, Who liveth and reigneth with Thee and the Holy Ghost, ever One God, world
without end. Amen.
EPISTLE. Ephesians 5:15-21
SEE then that ye walk circumspectly, not as fools, but as wise, redeeming the time, because the
days are evil. Wherefore be ye not unwise, but understanding what the will of the Lord is. And
be not drunk with wine, wherein is excess; but be filled with the Spirit; speaking to yourselves in
psalms and hymns and spiritual songs, singing and making melody in your heart to the Lord;
giving thanks always for all things unto God and the Father in the name of our Lord Jesus Christ;
submitting yourselves one to another in the fear of God.
GRADUAL
THE eyes of all wait upon Thee, O Lord: and Thou givest them their meat in due season.
V. Thou openest Thine hand: and satisfiest the desire of every living thing. Hallelujah.
Hallelujah.
V. O give thanks unto the Lord; call upon His Name: make known His deeds among the people.
Hallelujah.
GOSPEL. Matthew 22:1-14
AND Jesus answered and spake unto them again by parables, and said, The kingdom of heaven
is like unto a certain king, which made a marriage for his son, and sent forth his servants to call
them that were bidden to the wedding: and they would not come. Again, he sent forth other
servants, saying, Tell them which are bidden, Behold, I have prepared my dinner: my oxen and
my fatlings are killed, and all things are ready: come unto the marriage. But they made light of it,
and went their ways, one to his farm, another to his merchandise: and the remnant took his
servants, and entreated them spitefully, and slew them. But when the king heard thereof, he was
wroth: and he sent forth his armies, and destroyed those murderers, and burned up their city.
Then saith he to his servants, The wedding is ready, but they which were bidden were not
worthy. Go ye therefore into the highways, and as many as ye shall find, bid to the marriage. So
those servants went out into the highways, and gathered together all as many as they found, both
bad and good: and the wedding was furnished with guests. And when the king came in to see the
guests, he saw there a man which had not on a wedding garment: and he saith unto him, Friend,
how earnest thou in hither not having a wedding garment? And he was speechless. Then said the
king to the servants. Bind him hand and foot, and take him away, and east him into outer
darkness; there shall be weeping and gnashing of teeth. For many are called, but few are chosen.

The Twenty-First Sunday after Trinity
INTROIT
THE whole world is in Thy power, O Lord, King Almighty: there is no man that can gainsay
Thee.
For Thou hast made heaven and earth, and all the wondrous things under the heaven: Thou art
Lord of all.

Psalm. Blessed are the undefiled in the way: who walk in the law of the Lord.
Glory be to the Father, and to the Son, and to the Holy Ghost; as it was in the beginning, is now,
and ever shall be, world without end. Amen.
COLLECT
LORD, we beseech Thee to keep Thy household, the Church, in continual godliness; that
through Thy protection it may be free from all adversities, and devoutly given to serve Thee in
good works, to the glory of Thy Name; through Jesus Christ, Thy Son, our Lord, Who liveth and
reigneth with Thee and the Holy Ghost, ever One God, world without end. Amen.
EPISTLE. Ephesians 6:10-17
FINALLY, my brethren, be strong in the Lord, and in the power of his might. Put on the whole
armour of God, that ye may be able to stand against the wiles of the devil. For we wrestle not
against flesh and blood, but against principalities, against powers, against the rulers of the
darkness of this world, against spiritual wickedness in high places. Wherefore take unto you the
whole, armour of God, that ye may be able to withstand in the evil day, and having done all, to
stand. Stand therefore, having your loins girt about with truth, and having on the breastplate of
righteousness; and your feet shod with the preparation of the gospel of peace; above all, taking
the shield of faith, wherewith ye shall be able to quench all the fiery darts of the wicked. And
take the helmet of salvation, and the sword of the Spirit, which is the word of God.
GRADUAL
LORD, Thou hast been our dwelling place: in all generations.
V. Before the mountains were brought forth or ever Thou hadst formed the earth and the world:
even from everlasting to everlasting, Thou art God. Hallelujah. Hallelujah.
V. They that trust in the Lord shall be as Mount Zion: which cannot be removed, but abideth
forever. Hallelujah.
GOSPEL. John 4: 46-54
AND there was a certain nobleman, whose son was sick at Capernaum. When he heard that Jesus
was come out of Judea into Galilee, he went unto him, and besought him that he would come
down, and heal his son: for he was at the point of death. Then said Jesus unto him, Except ye see
signs and wonders, ye will not believe. The nobleman saith unto him, Sir, come down ere my
child die. Jesus saith unto him, Go thy way; thy son liveth. And the man believed the word that
Jesus had spoken unto him, and he went his way. And as he was now going down, his servants
met him, and told him, saying, Thy son liveth. Then enquired he of them the hour when he began
to amend. And they said unto him, Yesterday at the seventh hour the fever left him. So the father
knew that it was at the same hour, in the which Jesus said unto him, Thy son liveth: and himself
believed, and his whole house. This is again the second miracle that Jesus did, when he was
come out of Judaea into Galilee.

The Twenty-Second Sunday after Trinity
INTROIT
IF Thou, Lord, shouldest mark iniquities: O Lord, who shall stand?

But there is forgiveness with Thee: that Thou mayest be feared, O God of Israel.
Psalm. Out of the depths have I cried unto Thee, O Lord: Lord, hear my voice.
Glory be to the Father, and to the Son, and to the Holy Ghost; as it was in the beginning, is now,
and ever shall be, world without end. Amen.
COLLECT
O GOD, our Refuge and Strength, Who art the Author of all godliness: Be ready, we beseech
Thee, to hear the devout prayers of Thy Church; and grant that those things which we ask
faithfully, we may obtain effectually; through Jesus Christ, Thy Son, our Lord, Who liveth and
reigneth with Thee and the Holy Ghost, ever One God, world without end. Amen.
EPISTLE. Philippians 1: 3-11
I THANK my God upon every remembrance of you, always in every prayer of mine for you all
making request with joy, for your fellowship in the gospel from the first day until now; being
confident of this very thing, that he which hath begun a good work in you will perform it until
the day of Jesus Christ: even as it is meet for me to think this of you all, because I have you in
my heart; inasmuch as both in my bonds, and in the defence and confirmation of the gospel, ye
all are partakers of my grace. For God is my record, how greatly I long after you all in the
bowels of Jesus Christ. And this I pray, that your love may abound yet more and more in
knowledge and in all judgment; that ye may approve things that are excellent; that ye may be
sincere and without offence till the day of Christ; being filled with the fruits of righteousness,
which are by Jesus Christ, unto the glory and praise of God.
GRADUAL
BEHOLD how good and how pleasant it is: for brethren to dwell together in unity!
V. The Lord commanded blessing: even life for evermore. Hallelujah. Hallelujah.
V. Praise the Lord, O my soul. While I live will I praise the Lord: I will sing praises unto my
God. Hallelujah.
GOSPEL. Matthew 18:23-35
THEREFORE is the kingdom of heaven likened unto a certain king, which would take account
of his servants. And when he had begun to reckon, one was brought unto him, which owed him
ten thousand talents. But forasmuch as he had not to pay, his lord commanded him to be sold,
and his wife, and children, and all that he had, and payment to be made. The servant therefore
fell down, and worshipped him, saying, Lord, have patience with me, and I will pay thee all.
Then the lord of that servant was moved with compassion, and loosed him, and forgave him the
debt. But the same servant went out, and found one of his fellowservants, which owed him an
hundred pence: and he laid hands on him, and took him by the throat, saying, Pay me that thou
owest. And his fellowservant fell down at his feet, and besought him, saying, Have patience with
me, and I will pay thee all. And he would not: but went and cast him into prison, till he should
pay the debt. So when his fellowservants saw what was done, they were very sorry, and came
and told unto their lord all that was done. Then his lord, after that he had called him, said unto
him, O thou wicked servant, I forgave thee all that debt, because thou desiredst me: shouldest not
thou also have had compassion on thy fellowservant, even as I had pity on thee? And his lord

was wroth, and delivered him to the tormentors, till he should pay all that was due unto him. So
likewise shall my heavenly Father do also unto you. if ye from your hearts forgive not every one
his brother their trespasses.

The Twenty-Third Sunday after Trinity
INTROIT
I KNOW the thoughts that I think toward you, saith the Lord: thoughts of peace, and not of evil.
Then shall ye call upon Me, and pray unto Me, and I will hearken unto you: and I will turn your
captivity, and gather you from all nations and from all places.
Psalm. Lord, Thou hast been favorable unto Thy land: Thou hast brought back the captivity of
Jacob.
Glory be to the Father, and to the Son, and to the Holy Ghost; as it was in the beginning, is now,
and ever shall be, world without end. Amen.
COLLECT
ABSOLVE, we beseech Thee, O Lord, Thy people from their offences; that from the bonds of
our sins which, by reason of our frailty, we have brought upon us, we may be delivered by Thy
bountiful goodness; through Jesus Christ, Thy Son, our Lord, Who liveth and reigneth with Thee
and the Holy Ghost, ever One God, world without end. Amen.
EPISTLE. Philippians 3:17-21
BRETHREN, be followers together of me, and mark them which walk so as ye have us for an
ensample. (For many walk, of whom I have told you often, and now tell you even weeping, that
they are the enemies of the cross of Christ; whose end is destruction, whose God is their belly,
and whose glory is in their shame, who mind earthly things.) For our conversation is in heaven;
from whence also we look for the Saviour, the Lord Jesus Christ; who shall change our vile
body, that it may be fashioned like unto his glorious body, according to the working whereby he
is able even to subdue all things unto himself.
GRADUAL
THOU hast saved us from our enemies: and hast put them to shame that hated us.
V. In God we boast all the day long: and praise Thy Name forever. Hallelujah. Hallelujah.
V. Ye that fear the Lord, trust in the Lord: He is their Help and their Shield. Hallelujah.
GOSPEL. Matthew 22:15-22
THEN went the Pharisees, and took counsel how they might entangle him in his talk. And they
sent out unto him their disciples with the Herodians, saying, Master, we know that thou art true,
and teachest the way of God in truth, neither carest thou for any man: for thou regardest not the
person of men. Tell us therefore, What thinkest thou? Is it lawful to give tribute unto Caesar, or
not? But Jesus perceived their wickedness, and said, Why tempt ye me, ye hypocrites? Show me
the tribute money. And they brought unto him a penny. And he saith unto them, Whose is this
image and superscription? They say unto him, Caesar’s. Then saith he unto them, Render

therefore unto Caesar the things which are Caesar’s; and unto God the things that are God’s.
When they had heard these words, they marveled, and left him, and went their way.

The Twenty-Fourth Sunday after Trinity
INTROIT
O COME, let us worship and bow down I let us kneel before the Lord our Maker.
For He is our God: and we are the people of His pasture, and the sheep of His hand.
Psalm. O come, let us sing unto the Lord: let us make a joyful noise to the Rock of our salvation.
Glory be to the Father, and to the Son, and to the Holy Ghost; as it was in the beginning, is now,
and ever shall be, world without end. Amen.
COLLECT
STIR up, we beseech Thee, O Lord, the wills of Thy faithful people; that they, plenteously
bringing forth the fruit of good works, may of Thee be plenteously rewarded; through Jesus
Christ, Thy Son, our Lord, Who liveth and reigneth with Thee and the Holy Ghost, ever One
God, world without end. Amen.
EPISTLE. Colossians 1: 9-14
FOR this cause we also, since the day we heard it, do not cease to pray for you, and to desire that
ye might be filled with the knowledge of his will in all wisdom and spiritual understanding; that
ye might walk worthy of the Lord unto all pleasing, being fruitful in every good work, and
increasing in the knowledge of God; strengthened with all might, according to his glorious
power, unto all patience and longsuffering with joyfulness; giving thanks unto the Father, which
hath made us meet to be partakers of the inheritance of the saints in light: who hath delivered us
from the power of darkness, and hath translated us into the kingdom of his dear Son: in whom
we have redemption through his blood, even the forgiveness of sins.
GRADUAL
BLESSED is the man: that walketh not in the counsel of the ungodly.
V. His delight is in the law of the Lord: and in His law doth he meditate day and night.
Hallelujah. Hallelujah,
V. He shall call upon Me and I will answer him: with long life will I satisfy him and show him
My salvation. Hallelujah.
GOSPEL. Matthew 9:18-26
WHILE he spake these things unto them, behold, there came a certain ruler, and worshipped
him, saying, My daughter is even now dead: but come and lay thy hand upon her, and she shall
live. And Jesus arose, and followed him, and so did his disciples. And, behold, a woman, which
was diseased with an issue of blood twelve years, came behind him, and touched the hem of his
garment: for she said within herself, If I may but touch his garment, I shall be whole. But Jesus
turned him about, and when he saw her, he said, Daughter, be of good comfort; thy faith hath
made thee whole. And the woman was made whole from that hour. And when Jesus came into
the ruler’s house, and saw the minstrels, and the people making a noise, he said unto them, Give
place: for the maid is not dead, but sleepeth. And they laughed him to scorn. But when the

people were put forth, he went in, and took her by the hand, and the maid arose. And the fame
hereof went abroad into all that land.

The Twenty-Fifth Sunday after Trinity
INTROIT
HAVE mercy upon me, O Lord, for I am in trouble: deliver me from the hand of mine enemies,
and from them that persecute me.
Let me not be ashamed, O Lord I for I have called upon Thee.
Psalm. In Thee, O Lord, do I put my trust: let me never be ashamed.
Glory be to the Father, and to the Son, and to the Holy Ghost; as it was in the beginning, is now,
and ever shall be, world without end. Amen.
COLLECT
ALMIGHTY God, we beseech Thee, show Thy mercy unto Thy humble servants, that we who
put no trust in our own merits may not be dealt with after the severity of Thy judgment, but
according to Thy mercy; through Jesus Christ, Thy Son, our Lord, Who liveth and reigneth with
Thee and the Holy Ghost, ever One God, world without end. Amen.
EPISTLE. 1 Thessalonians 4:13-18
BUT I would not have you to be ignorant, brethren, concerning them which are asleep, that ye
sorrow not, even as others which have no hope. For if we believe that Jesus died and rose again,
even so them also which sleep in Jesus will God bring with him. For this we say unto you by the
word of the Lord, that we which are alive and remain unto the coming of the Lord shall not
prevent them which are asleep. For the Lord himself shall descend from heaven with a shout,
with the voice of the archangel, and with the trump of God: and the dead in Christ shall rise first:
then we which are alive and remain shall be caught up together with them in the clouds, to meet
the Lord in the air: and so shall we ever be with the Lord. Wherefore comfort one another with
these words.
GRADUAL
I WILL say of the Lord, He is my Refuge and my Fortress: my God, in Him will I trust,
V. His truth: shall be thy shield and buckler. Hallelujah. Hallelujah.
V. He that dwelleth in the secret place of the Most High: shall abide under the shadow of the
Almighty. Hallelujah.
GOSPEL. Matthew 24:15-28
WHEN ye therefore shall see the abomination of desolation, spoken of by Daniel the prophet,
stand in the holy place, (whoso readeth, let him understand: then let them which be in Judaea flee
into the mountains: let him which is on the housetop not come down to take any thing out of his
house: neither let him which is in the field return back to take his clothes. And woe unto them
that are with child, and to them that give suck in those days! But pray ye that your flight be not in
the winter, neither on the sabbath day: for then shall be great tribulation, such as was not since
the beginning of the world to this time, no, nor ever shall be. And except those days should be
shortened, there should no flesh be saved: but for the elect’s sake those days shall be shortened.

Then if any man shall say unto you, Lo, here is Christ, or there; believe it not. For there shall
arise false Christs, and false prophets, and shall show great signs and wonders; insomuch that, if
it were possible, they shall deceive the very elect. Behold, I have told you before. Wherefore if
they shall say unto you, Behold, he is in the desert; go not forth: behold, he is in the secret
chambers; believe it not. For as the lightning cometh out of the east, and shineth even unto the
west; so shall also the coming of the Son of man be. For wheresoever the carcase is, there will
the eagles be gathered together.

The Twenty-Sixth Sunday after Trinity
INTROIT
SAVE me, O God, by Thy Name: and judge me by Thy strength.
Hear my prayer, O God: give ear to the words of my mouth.
Psalm. He shall reward evil to mine enemies I cut them off in Thy truth.
Glory be to the Father, and to the Son, and to the Holy Ghost; as it was in the beginning, is now,
and ever shall be, world without end. Amen.
COLLECT
GOD, so rule and govern our hearts and minds by Thy Holy Spirit, that being ever mindful of the
end of all things, and the day of Thy just judgment, we may be stirred up to holiness of living
here, and dwell with Thee forever hereafter; through Jesus Christ, Thy Son, our Lord, Who liveth
and reigneth with Thee and the Holy Ghost, ever One God, world without end. Amen.
EPISTLE, 1 Peter 3: 3-14
KNOWING this first, that there shall come in the last days scoffers, walking after their own
lusts, and saying. Where is the promise of his coming? for since the fathers fell asleep, all things
continue as they were from the beginning of the creation. For this they willingly are ignorant of,
that by the word of God the heavens were of old, and the earth standing out of the water and in
the water: whereby the world that then was, being overflowed with water, perished: but the
heavens and the earth, which are now. by the same word are kept in store, reserved unto fire
against the day of judgment and perdition of ungodly men. But. beloved, be not ignorant of this
one thing, that one day is with the Lord as a thousand years, and a thousand years as one day.
The Lord is not slack concerning his promise, as some men count slackness: but is longsuffering
to upward, not willing that any should perish, but that all should come to repentance. But the day
of the Lord will come as a thief in the night: in the which the heavens shall pass away with a
great noise, and the elements shall melt with fervent heat, the earth also and the works that are
therein shall be burned up. Seeing then that all these things shall be dissolved, what manner of
persons ought ye to be in all holy conversation and godliness, looking for and hasting unto the
coming of the day of God, wherein the heavens being on fire shall be dissolved, and the elements
shall melt with fervent heat? Nevertheless we, according to his promise, look for new heavens
and a new earth, wherein dwelleth righteousness. Wherefore, beloved, seeing that ye look for
such things, be diligent that ye may be found of him in peace, without spot, and blameless.
Or,
2 Thessalonians 1:3-10

WE are bound to thank God always for you, brethren, as it is meet, because that your faith
groweth exceedingly, and the charity of every one of you all toward each other aboundeth; so
that we ourselves glory in you in the churches of God for your patience and faith in all your
persecutions and tribulations that ye endure: which is a manifest token of the righteous judgment
of God, that ye may be counted worthy of the kingdom of God, for which ye also suffer: seeing it
is a righteous thing with God to recompense tribulation to them that trouble you; and to you who
are troubled rest with us, when the Lord Jesus shall be revealed from heaven with his mighty
angels, in flaming fire taking vengeance on them that know not God, and that obey not the
gospel of our Lord Jesus Christ: who shall be punished with everlasting destruction from the
presence of the Lord, and from the glory of his power; when he shall come to be glorified in his
saints, and to be admired in all them that believe (because our testimony among you was
believed) in that day.
GRADUAL
WHO shall ascend into the hill of the Lord: or who shall stand in His holy place?
V. He that hath clean hands and a pure heart: He shall receive the blessing from the Lord.
Hallelujah. Hallelujah.
V. Fear not, for I have redeemed thee: I have called thee by thy name; thou art Mine. Hallelujah.
GOSPEL. Matthew 25:31-46
WHEN the Son of man shall come in his glory, and all the holy angels with him, then shall he sit
upon the throne of his glory: and before him shall be gathered all nations: and he shall separate
them one from another, as a shepherd divideth his sheep from the goats: and he shall set the
sheep on his right hand, but the goats on the left. Then shall the King say unto them on his right
hand. Come, ye blessed of my Father, inherit the kingdom prepared for you from the foundation
of the world: for I was an hungered, and ye gave me meat: I was thirsty, and ye gave me drink: I
was a stranger, and ye took me in: naked, and ye clothed me: I was sick, and ye visited me: I was
in prison, and ye came unto me. Then shall the righteous answer him, saying, Lord, when saw we
thee an hungered, and fed thee? or thirsty, and gave thee drink? when saw we thee a stranger,
and took thee in? or naked, and clothed thee? or when saw we thee sick, or in prison, and came
unto thee? And the King shall answer and say unto them. Verily I say unto you. Inasmuch as ye
have done it unto one of the least of these my brethren, ye have done it unto me. Then shall he
say also unto them on the left hand. Depart from me, ye cursed, into everlasting fire, prepared for
the devil and his angels: for I was an hungered, and ye gave me no meat: I was thirsty, and ye
gave me no drink: I was a stranger, and ye took me not in: naked, and ye clothed me not: sick,
and in prison, and ye visited me not. Then shall they also answer him, saying, Lord, when saw
we thee an hungered, or athirst, or a stranger, or naked, or sick, or in prison, and did not minister
unto thee? Then shall he answer them, saying. Verily I say unto you, Inasmuch as ye did it not to
one of the least of these, ye did it not to me. And these shall go away into everlasting punishment
but the righteous into life eternal.

The Twenty-Seventh Sunday after Trinity
The INTROIT, COLLECT, EPISTLE, GRADUAL and GOSPEL here following shall be used the
last Sunday after trinity of each year.

INTROIT
I AM Alpha and Omega, the beginning and the ending: which is, and which was, and which is to
come, the Almighty.
Behold, the tabernacle of God is with men, and He will dwell with them: and they shall be His
people, and God Himself shall be with them, and be their God.
Psalm. Lift up your heads, O ye gates; and be ye lift up, ye everlasting doors: and the King of
Glory shall come in.
Glory be to the Father, and to the Son, and to the Holy Ghost; as it was in the beginning, is now,
and ever shall be, world without end. Amen.
COLLECT
ABSOLVE, we beseech Thee, O Lord, Thy people from their offences; that from the bonds of
our sins which, by reason of our frailty, we have brought upon us, we may be delivered by Thy
bountiful goodness; through Jesus Christ, Thy Son, our Lord, Who liveth and reigneth with Thee
and the Holy Ghost, ever One God, world without end. Amen.
EPISTLE. 1 Thessalonians 5:1-11
BUT of the times and the seasons, brethren, ye have no need that I write unto you. For
yourselves know perfectly that the day of the Lord so cometh as a thief in the night. For when
they shall say, Peace and safety; then sudden destruction cometh upon them, as travail upon a
woman with child; and they shall not escape. But ye, brethren, are not in darkness, that that day
should overtake you as a thief. Ye are all the children of light, and the children of the day: we are
not of the night, nor of darkness. Therefore let us not sleep, as do others; but let us watch and be
sober. For they that sleep sleep in the night; and they that be drunken are drunken in the night.
But let us, who are of the day, be sober, putting on the breastplate of faith and love; and for an
helmet, the hope of salvation. For God hath not appointed us to wrath, but to obtain salvation by
our Lord Jesus Christ, who died for us, that, whether we wake or sleep, we should live together
with him. Wherefore comfort yourselves together, and edify one another, even as also ye do.
GRADUAL
I AM the Light of the world: he that followeth Me shall not walk in darkness, but shall have the
light of life.
V. The Spirit and the bride say, Come, and let him that heareth say, Come land let him that is
athirst come. Hallelujah. Hallelujah.
V. Even so, come: Lord Jesus. Hallelujah.
GOSPEL. Matthew 25:1-13
THEN shall the kingdom of heaven be likened unto ten virgins, which took their lamps, and went
forth to meet the bridegroom. And five of them were wise, and five were foolish. They that were
foolish took their lamps, and took no oil with them: but the wise took oil in their vessels with
their lamps. While the bridegroom tarried, they all slumbered and slept. And at midnight there
was a cry made, Behold, the bridegroom cometh; go ye out to meet him. Then all those virgins
arose, and trimmed their lamps. And the foolish said unto the wise, Give us of your oil: for our
lamps are gone out. But the wise answered, saying, Not so; lest there be not enough for us and
you: but go ye rather to them that sell, and buy for yourselves. And while they went to buy, the

bridegroom came; and they that were ready went in with him to the marriage: and the door was
shut. Afterward came also the other virgins, saying, Lord, Lord, open to us. But he answered and
said, Verily I say unto you, I know you not. Watch therefore, for ye know neither the day nor the
hour wherein the Son of man cometh.

Apostles’ Days
INTROIT
I KNOW Whom I have believed: and am persuaded that He is able to keep that which I have
committed unto Him against that day.
There is laid up for me a crown of righteousness: which the Lord, the righteous Judge, shall give
me.
Psalm. O Lord, Thou hast searched me and known me: Thou knowest my downsitting and mine
uprising.
Glory be to the Father, and to the Son, and to the Holy Ghost; as it was in the beginning, is now,
and ever shall be, world without end. Amen.
COLLECTS
O ALMIGHTY God, Whom to know is everlasting life: Grant us perfectly to know Thy Son
Jesus Christ to be the Way, the Truth, and the Life; that following His steps we may steadfastly
walk in the way that leadeth to eternal life; through the same Jesus Christ, Thy Son, our Lord,
Who liveth and reigneth with Thee and the Holy Ghost, ever One God, world without end.
Amen.
O ALMIGHTY God, Who by Thy Son Jesus Christ, didst give to Thy holy Apostles many
excellent gifts, and commandedst them earnestly to feed Thy flock: Make, we beseech Thee, all
Pastors diligently to preach Thy holy Word, and the people obediently to follow the same, that
they may receive the crown of everlasting glory; through Jesus Christ, Thy Son. our Lord, Who
liveth and reigneth with Thee and the Holy Ghost, ever One God, world without end. Amen.
O ALMIGHTY God, Who by Thy blessed Son didst call Matthew from the receipt of custom to
be an Apostle and Evangelist: Grant us grace to forsake all covetous desires, and inordinate love
of riches, and to follow the same Thy Son Jesus Christ, Who liveth and reigneth with Thee and
the Holy Ghost, ever One God, world without end. Amen.
O ALMIGHTY God, Who hast built Thy Church upon the foundation of the Apostles and
Prophets, Jesus Christ Himself being the Head Corner-Stone: Grant us so to be joined together in
unity of spirit by their doctrine, that we may be made a holy temple acceptable unto Thee;
through the same Jesus Christ, Thy Son, our Lord, Who liveth and reigneth with Thee and the
Holy Ghost, ever One God, world without end. Amen.
MERCIFUL Lord, we beseech Thee to east the bright beams of Thy light upon Thy Church, that
it, being instructed by the doctrine of the blessed Apostles, may so walk in the light of Thy truth,
that it may at length attain to the light of everlasting life; through Jesus Christ, Thy Son, our

Lord, Who liveth and reigneth with Thee and the Holy Ghost, ever One God, world without end.
Amen.
GRADUAL
THEIR sound went forth through all the earth: and their words to the end of the world.
V. The heavens declare the glory of God: and the firmament showeth His handiwork. Hallelujah.
Hallelujah.
V. I have chosen you out of the world: that ye should go and bring forth fruit, and that your fruit
should remain. Hallelujah.

Evangelists’ Days
INTROIT
GO ye into all the world: and preach the gospel to every creature.
Their sound went forth through all the earth: and their words to the end of the world.
Psalm. Thy Word is a lamp unto my feet: and a light unto my path.
Glory be to the Father, and to the Son, and to the Holy Ghost; as it was in the beginning, is now,
and ever shall be, world without end. Amen.
COLLECT
O ALMIGHTY God, Who hast instructed Thy holy Church with the heavenly doctrine of Thy
Evangelists: Give us grace, that being not like children carried away with every blast of vain
doctrine, we may be established in the Truth of Thy Holy Gospel; through Jesus Christ, Thy Son,
our Lord, Who liveth and reigneth with Thee and the Holy Ghost, ever One God, world without
end. Amen.
GRADUAL
THEIR sound went forth through all the earth: and their words to the end of the world.
V. The heavens declare the glory of God: and the firmament showeth His handiwork. Hallelujah.
Hallelujah.
V. I have chosen you out of the world: that ye should go and bring forth fruit, and that your fruit
should remain. Hallelujah.

St. Thomas, Apostle
December 21
For INTROIT, COLLECT and GRADUAL see Apostles’ Days, p. 172.
EPISTLE. Ephesians 1: 3-6. GOSPEL. John 20:24-31

St. Stephen, Martyr
December 26

INTROIT
PRINCES also did sit and speak against me: The wicked have waited for me to destroy me.
Help me, Lord God: for I have kept Thy testimonies.
Psalm. Blessed are the undefiled in the way: who walk in the law of the Lord.
Glory be to the Father, and to the Son, and to the Holy Ghost; as it was in the beginning, is now,
and ever shall be, world without end. Amen.
COLLECT
GRANT, O Lord, that, in all our sufferings here upon earth for the testimony of Thy truth, we
may steadfastly look up to heaven, and by faith behold the glory that shall be revealed; and.
being filled with the Holy Ghost, may learn to love and bless our persecutors by the example of
Thy first Martyr, Saint Stephen, who prayed for his murderers to Thee, Blessed Jesus, Who
standest at the right hand of God to succor all those that suffer for Thee, our only Mediator and
Advocate, Who livest and reignest with the Father and the Holy Ghost, ever One God, world
without end. Amen.
EPISTLE. Acts 6:8—7: 60
GRADUAL
BLESSED are they who are persecuted for righteousness’ sake: for theirs is the Kingdom of
Heaven.
Be thou faithful unto death: and I will give thee a crown of life. Hallelujah. Hallelujah.
V. I see the heavens opened: and Jesus standing at the Right Hand of God. Hallelujah.
GOSPEL. Matthew 23: 34-39

St. John, Apostle, Evangelist
December 27
For INTROIT and GRADUAL see Apostles’ Days, p. 172.
COLLECT
MERCIFUL Lord, we beseech Thee to cast the bright beams of Thy light upon Thy Church, that
it, being instructed by the doctrine of the blessed Apostles, may so walk in the light of Thy truth,
that it may at length attain to the light of everlasting life; through Jesus Christ, Thy Son, our
Lord, Who liveth and reigneth with Thee and the Holy Ghost, ever One God, world without end.
Amen.
EPISTLE. 1 John 1:1-10. GOSPEL. John 21:19-24

The Conversion of St. Paul
January 25
For INTROIT, COLLECT and GRADUAL see Apostles’ Days, p. 172.

EPISTLE. Acts 9:1-22. GOSPEL. Matthew 19:27-30

The Presentation of our Lord
February 2
INTROIT
WE have thought of Thy loving-kindness, O God: in the midst of Thy Temple.
According to Thy Name, O God, so is Thy praise unto the ends of the earth: Thy right hand is
full of righteousness.
Psalm. Great is the Lord, and greatly to be praised: in the city of our God, in the mountain of His
holiness.
Glory be to the Father, and to the Son, and to the Holy Ghost; as it was in the beginning, is now,
and ever shall be, world without end. Amen.
COLLECT
ALMIGHTY and Everliving God, we humbly beseech Thy Majesty, that as Thine Only-begotten
Son was this day presented in the Temple in substance of our flesh, so we may be presented unto
Thee with pure and clean hearts; through the same Jesus Christ, Thy Son, our Lord, Who liveth
and reigneth with Thee and the Holy Ghost, ever One God, world without end. Amen.
EPISTLE. Malachi 3:1-4. GOSPEL. Luke 2:22-32

St. Matthias, Apostle
February 24
For INTROIT, COLLECT and GRADUAL see Apostles’ Days, p. 172.
EPISTLE. Acts 1:15-26. GOSPEL. Matthew 11:25-30

The Annunciation
March 25
INTROIT
ALL the rich among the people shall entreat Thy favor: she shall be brought unto the King in
raiment of needle-work.
Her companions shall be brought unto Thee: with gladness and rejoicing.
Psalm. My heart is inditing a good matter: I speak of the things which I have made touching the
King.
Glory be to the Father, and to the Son, and to the Holy Ghost; as it was in the beginning, is now,
and ever shall be, world without end. Amen.
COLLECT

WE beseech Thee, O Lord, pour Thy grace into our hearts; that as we have known the
Incarnation of Thy Son Jesus Christ by the message of an angel, so by His Cross and Passion we
may be brought unto the glory of His Resurrection; through the same Jesus Christ, Thy Son, our
Lord, Who liveth and reigneth with Thee and the Holy Ghost, ever One God, world without end.
Amen.
EPISTLE. Isaiah 7:10-16. GOSPEL. Luke 1:26-38

St. Mark, Evangelist
April 25
For INTROIT and GRADUAL see Evangelists’ Days, p. 174.
COLLECT
O ALMIGHTY God, Who hast instructed Thy holy Church with the heavenly doctrine of Thy
Evangelists: Give us grace, that being not like children carried away with every blast of vain
doctrine, we may be established in the Truth of Thy Holy Gospel; through Jesus Christ, Thy Son,
our Lord, Who liveth and reigneth with Thee and the Holy Ghost, ever One God, world without
end. Amen.
EPISTLE. Ephesians 4: 7-13. GOSPEL. John 15:1-11

St. Philip and St. James, Apostles
May 1
For INTROIT and GRADUAL see Apostles’ Days, p. 172.
COLLECT
O ALMIGHTY God, Whom to know is everlasting life: Grant us perfectly to know Thy Son
Jesus Christ to be the Way, the Truth, and the Life; that following His steps we may steadfastly
walk in the way that leadeth to eternal life; through the same Jesus Christ, Thy Son, our Lord,
Who liveth and reigneth with Thee and the Holy Ghost, ever One God, world without end.
Amen.
EPISTLE. Ephesians 2:19-22. GOSPEL. John 14:1-14

The Nativity of St. John, the Baptist
June 24
INTROIT
THE voice of him that crieth in the wilderness: Prepare ye the way of the Lord, make straight
in the desert a highway for our God.
And the glory of the Lord: shall be revealed.

Psalm. It is a good thing to give thanks unto the Lord: and to sing praises unto Thy Name, O
Most High.
Glory be to the Father, and to the Son, and to the Holy Ghost; as it was in the beginning, is now,
and ever shall be, world without end. Amen.
COLLECT
O LORD God, Heavenly Father, Who, through Thy servant John the Baptist, didst bear witness
that Jesus Christ is the Lamb of God Which taketh away the sin of the world, and that all who
believe in Him shall inherit eternal life: We humbly pray Thee to enlighten us by Thy Holy Spirit
that we may at all times find comfort and joy in this witness, continue steadfast in the true faith,
and at last with all believers attain unto eternal life; through the same Jesus Christ, Thy Son, our
Lord, Who liveth and reigneth with Thee and the Holy Ghost, ever One God, world without end.
Amen.
EPISTLE. Isaiah 40:1-5
GRADUAL
AND thou, child, shalt be called the prophet of the Highest: for thou shalt go before the face of
the Lord to prepare His ways.
V. John bare witness of Him, and cried saying, This was He of Whom I spake, He that cometh
after me is preferred before me: for He was before me. Hallelujah. Hallelujah.
V. Behold the Lamb of God: Which taketh away the sin of the world. Hallelujah.
GOSPEL. Luke 1: 57-80

St. Peter and St. Paul, Apostles
June 29
For INTROIT and GRADUAL see Apostles’ Days, p. 172.
COLLECT
O ALMIGHTY God, Who by Thy Son Jesus Christ, didst give to Thy holy Apostles many
excellent gifts, and commandedst them earnestly to feed Thy flock: Make, we beseech Thee, all
Pastors diligently to preach Thy holy Word, and the people obediently to follow the same, that
they may receive the crown of everlasting glory; through Jesus Christ, Thy Son, our Lord, Who
liveth and reigneth with Thee and the Holy Ghost, ever One God, world without end. Amen.
EPISTLE. Acts 12:1-11. GOSPEL. Matthew 16:13-20

The Visitation
July 2
For INTROIT see The Annunciation, p. 177.

COLLECT
ALMIGHTY God, Who hast dealt wonderfully with Thy handmaiden the Virgin Mary, and hast
chosen her to be the mother of Thy Son, and hast graciously made known that Thou regardest the
poor and the lowly and the despised: Grant us grace in all humility and meekness to receive Thy
Word with hearty faith, and so to be made one with Thy dear Son, Who liveth and reigneth with
Thee and the Holy Ghost, ever One God, world without end. Amen.
EPISTLE. Isaiah 11:1-5. GOSPEL. Luke 1: 39-56

St. James the Elder, Apostle
July 25
For INTROIT, COLLECT and GRADUAL see Apostles’ Days, p. 172.
EPISTLE. Romans 8:28-39. GOSPEL. Matthew 20:20-33

St. Bartholomew, Apostle
August 24
For INTROIT, COLLECT and GRADUAL see Apostles’ Days, p. 172.
EPISTLE. 2 Corinthians 4: 7-10. GOSPEL. Luke 22:24-30.

St. Matthew, Apostle, Evangelist
September 21
For INTROIT and GRADUAL see Apostles’ Days, p. 172.
COLLECT
O ALMIGHTY God, Who by Thy blessed Son didst call Matthew from the receipt of custom to
be an Apostle and Evangelist: Grant us grace to forsake all covetous desires, and inordinate love
of riches, and to follow the same Thy Son Jesus Christ, Who liveth and reigneth with Thee and
the Holy Ghost, ever One God, world without end. Amen.
EPISTLE. Ephesians 4: 7-14. GOSPEL. Matthew 9: 9-13

St. Michael and All Angels
September 29
INTROIT
BLESS the Lord, ye His angels, that excel in strength: that do His commandments, hearkening
unto the voice of His word.

Bless ye the Lord, all ye His hosts: ye ministers of His that do His pleasure.
Psalm. Bless the Lord, my soul I and all that is within me bless His holy Name.
Glory be to the Father, and to the Son, and to the Holy Ghost; as it was in the beginning, is now,
and ever shall be, world without end. Amen.
COLLECT
O EVERLASTING God, Who hast ordained and constituted the services of angels and men in a
wonderful order: Mercifully grant, that as Thy holy angels always do Thee service in Heaven, so
by Thy appointment they may succor and defend us on earth; through Jesus Christ, Thy Son, our
Lord, Who liveth and reigneth with Thee and the Holy Ghost, ever One God, world without end.
Amen.
EPISTLE. Revelation 12: 7-12
GRADUAL
BLESS the Lord, ye His angels, that excel in strength: that do His commandments, hearkening
unto the voice of His word.
V. God hath given His angels charge over thee: to keep thee in all thy ways. Hallelujah.
Hallelujah.
V. Bless the Lord, O my soul: and all that is within me, bless His holy Name. Hallelujah.
V. And one cried unto another, and said: Holy, Holy, Holy, is the Lord of Hosts: the whole earth
is full of His glory. Hallelujah.
GOSPEL. Matthew 18:1-11

St. Luke, Evangelist
October 18
For INTROIT, COLLECT and GRADUAL see Evangelists’ Days, p. 174.
EPISTLE. 2 Timothy 4: 5-11. GOSPEL. Luke 10:1-9

St. Simon and St. Jude, Apostles
October 28
For INTROIT and GRADUAL see Apostles’ Days, p. 172.
COLLECT
O ALMIGHTY God, Who hast built Thy Church upon the foundation of the Apostles and
Prophets. Jesus Christ Himself being the Head Corner-Stone: Grant us so to be joined together in
unity of spirit by their doctrine, that we may be made a holy temple acceptable unto Thee;
through the same Jesus Christ, Thy Son, our Lord, Who liveth and reigneth with Thee and the
Holy Ghost, ever One God, world without end. Amen.

EPISTLE. 1 Peter 1: 3-9. GOSPEL. John 15:17-21

The Festival of the Reformation
October 31
The Sunday preceding this Festival may be observed as Reformation Sunday. except when
October 31st fall on Saturday, in which event the following day may be observed as Reformation
Sunday.
INTROIT
THE Lord of Hosts is with us: the God of Jacob is our Refuge.
Therefore will not we fear, though the earth be removed: and though the mountains be carried
into the midst of the sea.
Psalm. God is our Refuge and Strength: a very present help in trouble.
Glory be to the Father, and to the Son, and to the Holy Ghost; as it was in the beginning, is now,
and ever shall be, world without end. Amen.
COLLECT
O LORD God, Heavenly Father, pour out, we beseech Thee, Thy Holy Spirit upon Thy faithful
people, keep them steadfast in Thy grace and truth, protect and comfort them in all temptation,
defend them against all enemies of Thy Word, and bestow upon Christ’s Church militant Thy
saving peace; through the same Jesus Christ, Thy Son, our Lord, Who liveth and reigneth with
Thee and the Holy Ghost, ever One God, world without end. Amen.
Or,
ALMIGHTY God, Who, through the preaching of Thy servants, the blessed Reformers, hast
caused the light of the Gospel to shine forth: Grant, we beseech Thee, that, knowing its saving
power, we may faithfully guard and defend it against all enemies, and joyfully proclaim it, to the
salvation of souls and the glory of Thy holy Name; through Jesus Christ, Thy Son, our Lord,
Who liveth and reigneth with Thee and the Holy Ghost, ever One God, world without end.
Amen.
EPISTLE. Galatians 2:16-21
GRADUAL
GREAT is the Lord, and greatly to be praised: in the city of our God, in the mountain of His
holiness.
V. Walk about Zion; tell the towers thereof. Mark well her bulwarks, consider her palaces: that
ye may tell it to the generation following. Hallelujah. Hallelujah.
V. For this God is our God for ever and ever: He will be our guide even unto death. Hallelujah.
GOSPEL. John 8: 31-36

All Saints’ Day

November 1
INTROIT
THESE are they which have come out of great tribulation: and have washed their robes and
made them white in the Blood of the Lamb.
Therefore are they before the Throne of God: and serve Him day and night in His Temple.
Psalm. Rejoice in the Lord, O ye righteous: for praise is comely for the upright.
Glory be to the Father, and to the Son, and to the Holy Ghost; as it was in the beginning, is now,
and ever shall be, world without end. Amen.
COLLECT
O ALMIGHTY God, Who hast knit together Thine elect in one communion and fellowship in
the mystical Body of Thy Son. Christ our Lord: Grant us grace so to follow Thy blessed Saints in
all virtuous and godly living, that we may come to those unspeakable joys which Thou hast
prepared for those who unfeignedly love Thee; through Jesus Christ, Thy Son, our Lord, Who
liveth and reigneth with Thee and the Holy Ghost, ever One God, world without end. Amen.
EPISTLE. Revelation 7:2-17
GRADUAL
O FEAR the Lord, ye His saints: for there is no want to them that fear Him.
V. They that seek the Lord ; shall not want any good thing. Hallelujah. Hallelujah.
V. Come unto Me, all ye that labor and are heavy laden: and I will give you rest. Hallelujah.
GOSPEL. Matthew 5:1-12

St. Andrew, Apostle
November 30
For INTROIT, COLLECT and GRADUAL see Apostles’ Days, p. 172.
EPISTLE. Romans 10:10-18. GOSPEL. Matthew 4:18-22

The Festival of Harvest
INTROIT
O LORD, Thou crownest the year with Thy goodness: and Thy paths drop fatness.
Thou visitest the earth and waterest it: Thou blesses the springing thereof.
Psalm. Praise waiteth for Thee, O God, in Zion: and unto Thee shall the vow be performed.
Glory be to the Father, and to the Son, and to the Holy Ghost; as it was in the beginning, is now,
and ever shall be, world without end. Amen.
COLLECT

ALMIGHTY God, most Merciful Father, Who openest Thine hand, and satisfiest the desire of
every living thing: We give Thee most humble and hearty thanks that Thou hast crowned the
fields with Thy blessing, and hast permitted us once more to gather in the fruits of the earth; and
we beseech Thee to bless and protect the living seed of Thy Word sown in our hearts, that in the
plenteous fruits of righteousness we may always present to Thee an acceptable thank-offering;
through Jesus Christ, Thy Son, our Lord, Who liveth and reigneth with Thee and the Holy Ghost,
ever One God, world without end. Amen.
EPISTLE. 2 Corinthians 9: 6-11
GRADUAL
THE eyes of all wait upon Thee: and Thou givest them their meat in due season.
V. Thou openest Thine hand: and satisfiest the desire of every living thing. Hallelujah.
Hallelujah.
V. Bless the Lord, O my soul, and all that is within me, bless His holy Name: Bless the Lord, O
my soul, and forget not all His benefits. Hallelujah.
GOSPEL. Luke 12:1.5-21

A Day of Humiliation and Prayer
INTROIT
HEAR, O heavens, and give ear, O earth, for the Lord hath spoken: I have nourished and brought
up children, and they have rebelled against Me.
They have forsaken the Lord, they have provoked the Holy One of Israel unto anger: they are
gone away backward.
Psalm. If Thou, Lord, shouldest mark iniquities: O Lord, who shall stand?
Glory be to the Father, and to the Son, and to the Holy Ghost; as it was in the beginning, is now,
and ever shall be, world without end. Amen.
COLLECT
ALMIGHTY and most Merciful God, our Heavenly Father, of Whose compassion there is no
end, Who art long-suffering, gracious, and plenteous in goodness and truth; forgiving iniquity,
transgression and sin: We have sinned and done perversely, we have sinned and grievously
offended Thee; against Thee, Thee only, have we sinned and done evil in Thy sight; but, we
beseech Thee, O Lord, remember not against us former iniquities; let Thy tender mercies
speedily prevent as, for we are brought very low; help us, O God of our Salvation, and purge
away our sins, for the glory of Thy holy Name, and for the sake of Thy dear Son, Jesus Christ,
our Saviour, Who liveth and reigneth with Thee and the Holy Ghost, ever One God, world
without end. Amen.
EPISTLE. Revelation 3:1-6
GRADUAL
SEEK ye the Lord while He may be found: call ye upon Him while He is near;
V. Let the wicked forsake his way: and the unrighteous man his thoughts;

V. And let him return unto the Lord, and He will have mercy upon him: and to our God, for He
will abundantly pardon.
GOSPEL. Luke 15:11-32

A Day of General or Special Thanksgiving
The proper Service for this Day is the Order for Matins; but when The Service is used the
following Propers are appointed:
INTROIT
LET every thing that hath breath praise the Lord: Praise ye the Lord.
Praise Him for His mighty acts: praise Him according to His excellent greatness.
Psalm. Praise ye the Lord. Praise God in His sanctuary: praise Him in the firmament of His
power.
Glory be to the Father, and to the Son, and to the Holy Ghost; as it was in the beginning, is now,
and ever shall be, world without end. Amen.
COLLECT
ALMIGHTY God, our Heavenly Father, Whose mercies are new unto us every morning, and
Who, though we have in no wise deserved Thy goodness, dost abundantly provide for all our
wants of body and soul: Give us, we pray Thee, Thy Holy Spirit, that we may heartily
acknowledge Thy merciful goodness toward us, give thanks for all Thy benefits, and serve Thee
in willing obedience; through Jesus Christ, Thy Son, our Lord, Who liveth and reigneth with
Thee and the Holy Ghost, ever One God, world without end. Amen.
GRADUAL
THE eyes of all wait upon Thee: and Thou givest them their meat in due season.
V. Thou openest Thine hand: and satisfiest the desire of every living thing. Hallelujah.
Hallelujah.
V. Bless the Lord, O my soul, and all that is within me, bless His holy Name: Bless the Lord, O
my soul, and forget not all His benefits. Hallelujah.
LESSONS. Deuteronomy 8:1-20. Isaiah 26:1-12. 1 Timothy 2:1-8

